##;Berserker
#h;Berserker
A massive wookiee hunter prowls through the forest, hefting his vibroaxe. With a roar he charges at the pair of trandoshans who dared poach his kin.
A gamorrean snarls at the latest challenger to his authority over their savage tribe, ready to break his neck with his bare hands as he did to the last six rivals.
Frothing at the mouth, a nikto slams his helmet into the face of his foe, then turns to drive his armored elbow into the gut of another.
These berserkers, different as they might be, are defined by their rage: unbridled, unquenchable, and unthinking fury. More than a mere emotion, their anger is the ferocity of a cornered predator, the unrelenting assault of a storm, the churning turmoil of the sea. For every berserker, rage is a power that fuels not just a battle frenzy but also uncanny reflexes, resilience, and feats of strength.
#h;Primal Instinct
People of towns and cities take pride in how their civilized ways set them apart from animals, as if denying one’s own nature was a mark of superiority. To a berserker, though, civilization is no virtue, but a sign of weakness. The strong embrace their animal nature keen instincts, primal physicality, and ferocious rage. Berserkers are uncomfortable when hedged in by walls and crowds. They thrive where the civilized don't.
Berserkers come alive in the chaos of combat. They can enter a berserk state where rage takes over, giving them superhuman strength and resilience. A berserker can draw on this reservoir of fury only a few times without resting, but those few rages are usually sufficient to defeat whatever threats arise.
#h;A Life of Danger
Not every person deemed “berserkers” by scions of civilized society has the berserker class. A true berserker among these people is as uncommon as a skilled fighter in a town, and he or she plays a similar role as a protector of the people and a leader in times of war. Life in the wild places of the world is fraught with peril: rival tribes, deadly weather, and terrifying monsters. Berserkers charge headlong into that danger so that their people don’t have to.
Their courage in the face of danger makes berserkers perfectly suited for adventuring. Wandering is often a way of life for their native tribes, and the rootless life of the adventurer is little hardship for a berserker. Some berserkers miss the close-knit family structures of the tribe, but eventually find them replaced by the bonds formed among the members of their adventuring parties.
#h;CREATING A BERSERKER
When creating a berserker character, think about where your character comes from and his or her place in the world. Talk with your GM about an appropriate origin for your berserker. Did you come from a remote planet, making you a stranger in the area of the campaign? Or is the campaign set in a rough-and-tumble frontier where berserkers are common? What led you to take up the adventuring life? Were you lured to settled planets by the promise of riches? Did you join forces with soldiers of those lands to face a shared threat? Did monsters or an invading horde drive you out of your homeland, making you a rootless refugee? Perhaps you were a prisoner of war, brought in chains to "civilized" lands and only now able to win your freedom. Or you might have been cast out from your people because of a crime you committed, a taboo you violated, or a coup that removed you from a position of authority.
#h;QUICK BUILD
You can make a berserker quickly by following these suggestions. First, put your highest ability score in Strength, followed by Constitution. Second, choose the mercenary background.
#h;The Berserker
#ts;
#th;Level;Proficiency Bonus;Features;Rages;Rage Damage;Berserker Instincts;
#tr;1;+2;Rage, Unarmored Defense;2;2;;
#tr;2;+2;Reckless Attack, Berserker Instincts;2;2;2;
#tr;3;+2;Danger Sense, Berserker Approach;3;2;2;
#tr;4;+2;Ability Score Improvement;3;2;2;
#tr;5;+3;Extra Attack;3;2;2;
#tr;6;+3;Path Feature;4;2;2;
#tr;7;+3;Feral Impulse;4;2;2;
#tr;8;+3;Ability Score Improvement;4;2;3;
#tr;9;+4;Brutal Critical(one die);4;3;3;
#tr;10;+4;Path Feature;4;3;3;
#tr;11;+4;Relentless Rage;4;3;3;
#tr;12;+4;Ability Score Improvement;4;3;3;
#tr;13;+5;Brutal Critical(two dice);5;3;4;
#tr;14;+5;Path Feature;5;3;4;
#tr;15;+5;Persistent Rage;5;3;4;
#tr;16;+5;Ability Score Improvement;5;4;4;
#tr;17;+6;Brutal Critical(three dice);6;4;5;
#tr;18;+6;Indomitable Might;6;4;5;
#tr;19;+6;Ability Score Improvement;6;4;5;
#tr;20;+6;Primal Champion;Unlimited;4;5;
#te;

#h;Class Features
As a berserker, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d12 per berserker level.
Hit Points at 1st Level: 12 + your Constitution modifier.
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d12 (or 7) + your Constitution modifier per berserker level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armor: Light, Medium
Weapons: Simple Vibroweapons, Martial Vibroweapons, Simple Blasters
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Strength, Constitution
Skills: Choose two from Animal Handling, Athletics, Intimidation, Nature, Perception, and Survival
Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
#ls;
#li;(a) a martial vibroweapon and a light or medium shield or (b) two martial vibroweapons
#li;(a) two techaxes or (b) two vibrospears
#li;An explorer's pack
#le;
VARIANT: STARTING WEALTH
In lieu of the equipment granted by your class and background, you can elect to purchase your starting gear. If you do so, you receive no equipment from your class and background, and instead roll for your starting wealth using (5d4 x 100) cr.
#fe;Rage;1
Beginning at 1st level, in battle, you fight with primal ferocity. On your turn, you can enter a rage as a bonus action if you aren’t wearing heavy armor.
While raging, you gain the following benefits:
- You have advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws.
- When you make a melee weapon attack using Strength, you gain a bonus to the damage roll that increases as you gain levels as a berserker, as shown in the Rage Damage column of the berserker table.
- You have resistance to kinetic and energy damage.
If you are able to cast powers, you can't cast them or concentrate on them while raging.
Your rage lasts for 1 minute. It ends early if you are knocked unconscious or if your turn ends and you haven't attacked a hostile creature since your last turn or taken damage since then. You can also end your rage on your turn as a bonus action.
Once you have raged the number of times shown for your berserker level in the Rages column of the Berserker table, you must finish a long rest before you can rage again.
#fe;Unarmored Defense;1
Also at 1st level, while you are not wearing any armor, your Armor Class equals 10 + your Dexterity modifier + your Constitution modifier. You can use a shield and still gain this benefit.
#fe;Reckless Attack;2
Starting at 2nd level, you can throw aside all concern for defense to attack with fierce desperation. When you make your first attack on your turn, you can decide to attack recklessly. Doing so gives you advantage on melee weapon attack rolls using Strength during this turn, but attack rolls against you have advantage until your next turn.
#fe;Berserker Instincts;2
Also at 2nd level, you've honed two instincts. You hone an additional instinct at 7th, 13th, and 17th level.
The instincts are presented in alphabetical order. If an
instinct has prerequisites, you must meet them to learn it. You can learn an instinct at the same time you meet its prerequisites.
#bp;ACKLAY'S INSTINCT
While raging, you have advantage on Constitution saving throws.
#bp;BANTHA'S INSTINCT
Prerequisite: 7th level
Your carrying capacity and the weight you can push, drag, or lift doubles. If it would already double, it instead triples. Additionally, you have advantage on Strength checks made to push, pull, lift, or break objects.
#bp;BLURRG'S INSTINCT
Whether mounted or on foot, your travel pace is doubled, as is the travel pace of up to ten companions while they’re within 60 feet of you and you’re not incapacitated.
#bp;BOGGDO'S INSTINCT
Prerequisite: 13th level
While raging you have a flying speed equal to your current walking speed, though you fall if you end your turn in the air and nothing else is holding you aloft.
#bp;CHIRODACTYL'S INSTINCT
Prerequisite: 7th level
While raging, you have blindsight to a range of 30 feet, and you have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sound, as long as you aren’t deafened.
#bp;DEWBACK'S INSTINCT
Choose three damage types. While raging, you have resistance to the chosen damage types.
#bp;FIGHTER'S INSTINCT
You adopt a particular style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the Fighting Style options, detailed in Chapter 6. You can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.
#bp;FYRNOCK'S INSTINCT
While raging, you can use your bonus action to leap up to 30 feet to an empty space you can see. When you land you deal kinetic damage equal to your Strength modifier to each creature within 5 feet of where you land. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Constitution modifier (a minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you complete a long rest.
#bp;HAWK'S INSTINCT
Prerequisite: 7th level
You can see up to 1 mile away with no difficulty. You are able to discern even fine details as though looking at something no more than 100 feet away from you. Additionally, dim light doesn’t impose disadvantage on your Wisdom (Perception) checks.
#bp;KATARN'S INSTINCT
You gain a climbing speed equal to your movement speed.
#bp;LOTH-CAT'S INSTINCT
While you’re raging, other creatures have disadvantage on opportunity attack rolls against you, and you can take the Dash action as a bonus action on your turn.
#bp;PREDATOR'S INSTINCT
Your speed increases by 10 feet.
#bp;RANCOR'S INSTINCT
Prerequisite: 13th level
While you’re raging any creature within 5 feet of you that’s hostile to you has disadvantage on attack rolls against targets other than you or another character with this feature. An enemy is immune to this effect if it can’t see or hear you or if it can’t be frightened.
#bp;TACTICIAN'S INSTINCT
When you use your Reckless Attack feature, you can choose to not have advantage on your attack rolls this turn. If you do so, friendly creatures within 5 feet of a hostile creature that is within 5 feet of you have advantage on attack rolls against that creature.
#bp;TRACKER'S INSTINCT
Prerequisite: 7th level
You can track other creatures while traveling at a fast pace, and you can move stealthily while traveling at a normal pace.
#bp;TERENTATEK'S INSTINCT
Prerequisite: 13th level
When you are forced to make a saving throw against a force power, you can immediately use your reaction to move up to half your speed towards the source power’s caster. If you end this movement within 5 feet of the target, you can immediately make one melee weapon attack against the target as a part of that reaction.
#bp;VARACTYL'S INSTINCT
Prerequisite: 13th level
While raging, you have advantage Dexterity checks, your attack rolls can’t suffer from disadvantage, and each slowed level only reduces your speed by 5 feet, unless it would reduce your speed to 0.
#fe;Danger Sense;3
At 3rd level, you gain an uncanny sense of when things nearby aren’t as they should be, giving you an edge when you dodge away from danger.
You have advantage on Dexterity saving throws against effects that you can see, such as traps and powers. To gain this benefit, you can’t be blinded, deafened, or incapacitated.
#fe;Berserker Approach;3
Also at 3rd level, you choose an approach that shapes the nature of your rage which is detailed at the end of the class description. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 6th, 10th, and 14th levels.
#fe;Ability Score Improvement;
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see Chapter 6 for a list of feats).
#fe;Extra Attack;5
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
#fe;Feral Impulse;7
By 7th level, your instincts are so honed that you have advantage on initiative rolls.
Additionally, if you are surprised at the start of combat and aren’t incapacitated, you can act normally on your first turn, but only if you enter your rage before doing anything else on that turn.
#fe;Brutal Critical;9
Beginning at 9th level, you can roll one additional weapon damage die when determining the extra damage for a critical hit with a melee attack.
This increases to two additional dice at 13th level and three additional dice at 17th level.
#fe;Relentless Rage;11
Starting at 11th level, your rage can keep you fighting despite grievous wounds. If you drop to 0 hit points while you’re raging and don’t die outright, you can make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. If you succeed, you drop to 1 hit point instead.
Each time you use this feature after the first, the DC increases by 5. When you finish a short or long rest, the DC resets to 10.
#fe;Persistent Rage;15
Beginning at 15th level, your rage is so fierce that it ends early only if you fall unconscious or if you choose to end it.
#fe;Indomitable Might;18
Beginning at 18th level, if your total for a Strength check is less than your Strength score, you can use that score in place of the total.
#fe;Primal Champion;20
At 20th level, you embody the power of the wilds. Your Strength or Dexterity score increases by 2, and your Constitution score increases by 2. Your maximum for those scores increases by 2.
Additionally, you can enter rage an unlimited number of times, and entering rage no longer requires your bonus action.

#abh;Berserker Approaches
#ab;Ballistic Approach
For many, rushing an opponent with guns blazing is a last resort. For Berserkers of the Ballistic Approach, this isn’t a last resort, it’s the primary plan. Leading with a blaster and pure, unbridled rage, the berserker never lets an empty gun diminish their fury.
#abf;Firestorm;3
When you choose this approach at 3rd level, you gain proficiency in martial blasters with the burst or rapid property. Additionally, you’ve learned to use ranged weapons with untold fury. While wielding a blaster with which you are proficient, you gain the following benefits:
#ls;
#li;When making a ranged weapon attack while within 30 feet of your target, you use your choice of Strength or Dexterity modifier for the attack and damage rolls. You must use the same modifier for both rolls.
#li;When you use a blaster as an improvised weapon, you are considered proficient with it.
#le;
#abf;Explosive;3
Also at 3rd level, while raging, you gain the following benefits:
#ls;
#li;When you roll a 1 or 2 on a damage die for an attack made with a blaster weapon, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll, even if the new roll is a 1 or a 2.
#li;You add your rage damage to damage rolls from ranged weapon attacks using Strength. You may only apply your rage damage to one target when you use the burst property.
#le;
#abf;Rampage;6
At 6th level, while raging, when you deal damage with a blaster with which you are proficient, and you added your Strength modifier to the damage roll, you can use a bonus action to move up to half your speed towards your target. You must end this movement closer to your target than you started. If you end this movement within 5 feet of your target, you can make one melee weapon attack with your blaster as a part of this bonus action.
#abf;Down, not out;10
Starting at 10th level, when you are hit with an attack by a creature within 30 feet of you, you can use your reaction to make a single attack against that creature with a blaster with which you are proficient.
#abf;Brawn;14
At 14th level, when you use the burst property of a blaster with which are you proficient, you can apply your rage damage bonus to every target that takes damage, instead of just one. Additionally, when a creature fails the saving throw against your burst or rapid property, it is knocked prone.
#ab;Marauder Approach
Few things are more terrifying than being in the path of a Berserker who has learned the ways of the Force. Those who follow this path unlock something deep within them, a well of untamed power from the depths of their fury. When a marauder unleashes their rage, they channel their brute strength into primal might, and uses it to devastate his foes in a hail of fire, blades, and blood. Due to the uncontrolled nature of their powers, marauders have a dangerous predilection for the strength and raw power offered by the dark side, and many fall into it’s clutches. Even those who do not are always temped by the voices of fury barely contained within.
#abf;Forcecasting;3
When you choose this approach at 3rd level, you have derived powers from your primal connection to the Force. See chapter 10 for the general rules of forcecasting and chapter 11 for the force powers list.
#ts;
#th;Level;Force Powers Known;Force Points;Max Power Level;
#tr;3rd;4;3;1st;
#tr;4th;6;4;1st;
#tr;5th;7;5;1st;
#tr;6th;8;6;1st;
#tr;7th;10;7;2nd;
#tr;8th;11;8;2nd;
#tr;9th;12;9;2nd;
#tr;10th;13;10;2nd;
#tr;11th;14;11;2nd;
#tr;12th;15;12;2nd;
#tr;13th;17;13;3rd;
#tr;14th;18;14;3rd;
#tr;15th;19;15;3rd;
#tr;16th;20;16;3rd;
#tr;17th;22;17;3rd;
#tr;18th;23;18;3rd;
#tr;19th;24;19;4th;
#tr;20th;25;20;4th;
#te;
#h;Force Powers Known
You learn 4 force powers of your choice, and you learn more at higher levels, as shown in the Force Powers Known column of the Marauder Approach Forcecasting table. You may not learn a force power of a level higher than your Max Power Level, and you may learn a force power at the same time you learn its prerequisite.
#h;Force Points
You have a number of force points equal to your berserker level, as shown in the Force Points column of the Marauder Approach Forcecasting table, + your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice). You use these force points to cast force powers. You regain all expended force points when you finish a long rest.
#h;Max Power Level
Many force powers can be overpowered, consuming more force points to create a greater effect. You can overpower these abilities to a maximum level, which increases at higher levels, as shown in the Max Power Level column of the Marauder Approach Forcecasting table.
You may only cast force powers at 4th-level once. You regain the ability to do so after a long rest.
#h;Forcecasting Ability
Your forcecasting ability varies based on the alignment of the powers you cast. You use Wisdom for light side powers, Charisma for dark side powers, and Wisdom or Charisma for universal powers (your choice). You use this ability score modifier whenever a power refers to your forcecasting ability. Additionally, you use this ability score modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a force power you cast and when making an attack roll with one.
#bp;Force save DC
8 + your proficiency bonus + your forcecasting ability modifier
#bp;Force attack modifier
your proficiency bonus + your forcecasting ability modifier
#abf;Furious Force;3
Also at 3rd level, you can cast force powers while raging as long as the power’s casting time is no more than 1 action, the power does not require concentration, and you are not wearing heavy armor or wielding a medium or heavy shield. While raging, you add your rage damage to damage rolls from force powers you cast. If a force power damages more than one target, you may only apply your rage damage to one of the targets.
Casting force powers during rage counts as attacking for the purposes of maintaining rage, and you can use your Reckless Attack feature to gain advantage when casting a force power that requires an attack roll.
#abf;Reckless Power;6
At 6th level, weapons and the force are equally an extension of your rage. While you are raging and you use your action to cast a force power, you can make a single melee weapon attack as a bonus action.
#abf;Powerful Presence;10
Starting at 10th level, as a bonus action, you unleash a battle cry infused with force energy. Choose up to ten other creatures of within 60 feet of you that can hear you. Friendly creatures have advantage on attack rolls and saving throws until the start of your next turn, and hostile creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls and saving throws until the end of your next turn.
Once you’ve used this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.
#abf;Force Storm;14
At 14th level, you can expel the might of your rage all at once to unleash a devastating storm of force energy. As an action, you can end your rage early, forcing each creature within 15 feet of you to make a Dexterity saving throw against your universal force save DC. On a failed save, a creature takes 1d12 force damage for each round you’ve spent in rage, or half as much on a successful one.
#ab;Precision Approach
Some berserkers have learned to channel their rage into a method of increasing their focus and precision to supernatural levels. Those berserkers who choose the Precision Approach hone their rage to a fine point, becoming agile warriors who ruthlessly dispatch their foes.
#abf;Careful Steps;3
When you choose this approach at 3rd level, you gain skills that represent your precise movement. You gain proficiency your choice of Acrobatics or Stealth. While raging, you have advantage on checks you make with the chosen skill.
#abf;Focused Rage;3
Also at 3rd level, you hone your rage to a razor sharp focus. While raging, when you make a melee weapon attack using Dexterity, you add your rage damage to the damage roll. Additionally, you can use your Reckless Attack feature to give you advantage on melee weapon attacks using Dexterity during your turn.
#abf;Battle Anticipation;6
At 6th level, while raging, your critical hit range with melee weapon attacks using Dexterity increases by 1.
#abf;Improved Danger Sense;10
Starting at 10th level, while raging, when you are subjected to an effect that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage against effects that you can see, such as traps and powers, you are treated as proficient in the save, and you instead take no damage if you succeed on a saving throw, and only half damage if you fail.
#abf;Calm Within The Storm;14
At 14th level, the precision with which you act during your rage causes you to become a storm of reactive lethality. When you use your Reckless Attack feature, you can make a number of opportunity attacks equal to your proficiency bonus without using your reaction, and when a creature within 5 feet of you misses you with an attack, you can use your reaction to make a melee weapon attack using Dexterity against that creature. You can only take one reaction per turn.
#ab;Warchief Approach
For some berserkers, it is their duty or birthright to lead their tribe and kin to battle and victory. The Warchief Approach is one forged from alliances, bonds, and strategy. In combat, your rages are less mindless, and more focused. Ignoring the distractions of unimportant events, your attention hones in on the battlefield and how best to direct and control it. You guide your allies’ strikes, and your presence is enough to wash away their fatigue.
#abf;Savage Diplomat;3
Your path necessitates that you build relationships with others, for the betterment of your tribe or yourself.
When you choose this approach at 3rd level, you gain proficiency in one of the following skills of your choice: Persuasion or Intimidation. You can choose to learn one language in place of the skill proficiency.
#abf;Commanding Rage;3
Also at 3rd level, when in your rage, you become more aware of your allies, and their intent when fighting at your side. While you are raging, when an ally within 10 feet of you makes an attack roll against an enemy, you can use your reaction to grant advantage to that attack and add your rage damage bonus to the damage roll, if the attack hits.
#abf;Inspiring Presence;6
At 6th level your mere presence on the battlefield rallies your allies. When you rage, choose up to 3 allies that you can see within 30 feet of you. Each creature gains temporary hit points equal to half your berserker level (rounded down) + your Charisma modifier (minimum of one).
#abf;Raid Planning;10
Starting at 10th level, you learn to flare up your allies’ drive for combat, urging them to follow you into the fray. During a long rest, you tell sagas, sing battle songs, and give inspiring speeches. At the end of the long rest choose up to 5 creatures that can hear and understand you (which can include yourself) to add your Charisma modifier (minimum of one) to their next initiative roll, and a 10 foot bonus to their speed on their first turn of combat.
#abf;War Chant;14
By 14th level you have memorized the litanies, songs, and chants of your people and their dedication to war. When you enter a rage you can take a commanding stance. If you do so, for the duration of your rage you have a special reaction you can take on a number of allies’ turns equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of one). You can only use this special reaction to use your Commanding Rage feature.
Additionally, during this rage, when an enemy within 10 feet of you makes an attack roll against an ally, you can use your reaction to reduce that roll by an amount equal to your Charisma modifier.
Once you’ve used this feature, you must complete a long rest before you can use it again.

##;Consular
#h;Consular
A twi’lek in black robes steps on a terrified rodian, who scampers away on the ground. Lightning sparks from his fingers, illuminating his red and black tattoos. The rodian’s pleas for mercy fall on deaf ears as the Sith channels his lightning into his failed apprentice, leaving nothing but a charred husk behind.
Sitting cross-legged on a dense patch of grass, a miraluka mystic meditates on the Force. With every breath, the trees sway with a rhythmic breeze. Though she lacks simple vision, she can see the Force as it moves everything around her.
A drably-robed human focuses inward, channeling the Force into the ground around him. Slowly, all the debris within arms reach rises into the air around him, with a flick of his wrist, he clears the air, sending his projectiles to pound on the approaching tank.
Consulars are the supreme wielders of the Force, defined and united by the powers they cast. Drawing on the omnipresent Force that permeates the universe, consulars cast powers of rejuvenating healing and destructive lightning, draining life-force and manipulating minds, the most powerful with the Force can even experience brief glimpses of the future.
#h;Strong with the Force
Refraining from drawing their lightsabers except as a measure of last resort, consulars spend a great deal of time studying the mysteries of the Force. Their knowledge allows them to channel the Force to greater heights, unlocking unrivaled power, and twisting those powers to greater effect.
#h;Sage or Sorcerer
Consulars who follow the light side of the Force, using their powers to better their communities and people, are often called sages, while consulars who fall to the dark side and subjugate or cast aside all in their path are commonly called sorcerers. Alternatively, they may tend toward the middle, refraining from politics and war, spending their time in isolation and study.
#h;CREATING A CONSULAR
While creating your consular, consider your personal philosophy in regards to the Force and its most famous practitioners - the Jedi and the Sith. Are you a member of one of the two orders, or do you walk a different path? Perhaps you were ostracized from your primitive village out of superstition or jealousy. You may have been brutally trained from a young age in the dark side, fueling your innate thirst for power, or perhaps you were trained as a padawan in one of the Jedi temples. How do you treat strangers, and how do they treat you once they know your abilities? What was your family like, or what did you have instead of a family? Do you see the Force as light and dark, or an impartial river of gray?
#h;QUICK BUILD
You can make a consular quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Wisdom or Charisma your highest ability score, followed by Dexterity. Second, choose the Jedi or Sith background.
#h;The Consular
#ts;
#th;Level;Proficiency Bonus;Features;Force Powers Known;Force Points;Max Power Level;
#tr;1;+2;Forcecasting, Force Recovery;9;4;1st;
#tr;2;+2;Force-Empowered Casting, Force Shield;11;8;1st;
#tr;3;+2;Consular Tradition, Force Affinity;13;12;2nd;
#tr;4;+3;Ability Score Improvement;15;16;2nd;
#tr;5;+3;-;17;20;3rd;
#tr;6;+3;Tradition feature;19;24;3rd;
#tr;7;+3;-;21;28;4th;
#tr;8;+3;Ability Score Improvement;23;32;4th;
#tr;9;+4;-;25;36;5th;
#tr;10;+4;Tradition feature;26;40;5th;
#tr;11;+4;-;28;44;6th;
#tr;12;+4;Ability Score Improvement;29;48;6th;
#tr;13;+5;-;31;52;7th;
#tr;14;+5;Tradition feature;32;56;7th;
#tr;15;+5;-;34;60;8th;
#tr;16;+5;Ability Score Improvement;35;64;8th;
#tr;17;+6;-;37;68;9th;
#tr;18;+6;Tradition feature;38;72;9th;
#tr;19;+6;Ability Score Improvement;39;76;9th;
#tr;20;+6;One with the Force;40;80;9th;
#te;
#h;Class Features
As a consular, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d6 per consular level.
Hit Points at 1st Level: 6 + your Constitution modifier.
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d6 (or 4) + your Constitution modifier per consular level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armor: None
Weapons: Simple VibroWeapons, Simple lightweapons
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Wisdom, Charisma
Skills: Choose two from Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation, Lore, Medicine, and Persuasion
Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
#ls;
#li;(a) a simple lightweapon or (b) a simple vibroweapon
#li;(a) a scholar's pack, (b) an explorer's pack, or (c) a diplomat's pack
#le;
VARIANT: STARTING WEALTH
In lieu of the equipment granted by your class and background, you can elect to purchase your starting gear. If you do so, you receive no equipment from your class and background, and instead roll for your starting wealth using 5d4 x 100 cr.
#fe;Forcecasting;1
Beginning at 1st level, in your meditations on the force, you have learned powers, fragments of knowledge that imbue you with an abiding force ability. See chapter 10 for the general rules of forcecasting and chapter 11 for the force powers list.
#h;Force Powers Known
You learn 9 force powers of your choice, and you learn more at higher levels, as shown in the Force Powers Known column of the consular table. You may not learn a force power of a level higher than your Max Power Level, and you may learn a force power at the same time you learn its prerequisite.
#h;Force Points
You have a number of force points equal to your consular level x 4, as shown in the Force Points column of the consular table, + your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice). You use these force points to cast force powers. You regain all expended force points when you finish a long rest.
#h;Max Power Level
Many force powers can be overpowered, consuming more force points to create a greater effect. You can overpower these abilities to a maximum level, which increases at higher levels, as shown in the Max Power Level column of the consular table.
You may only cast force powers at 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th-level once. You regain the ability to do so after a long rest.
#h;Forcecasting Ability
Your forcecasting ability varies based on the alignment of the powers you cast. You use Wisdom for light side powers, Charisma for dark side powers, and Wisdom or Charisma for universal powers (your choice). You use this ability score modifier whenever a power refers to your forcecasting ability. Additionally, you use this ability score modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a force power you cast and when making an attack roll with one.
#bp;Force save DC
8 + your proficiency bonus + your forcecasting ability modifier
#bp;Force attack modifier
your proficiency bonus + your forcecasting ability modifier
#fe;Force Recovery;1
Also at 1st level, you have learned to regain some of your energy by briefly meditating. When you finish a short rest, you can regain a number of force points equal to half your consular level (rounded down) + your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, minimum of one). Once you’ve used this feature, you must complete a long rest before you can use it again.
#fe;Force-Empowered Casting;2,10,17
At 2nd level, you gain the ability to twist your powers to suit your needs. When you cast a force power, you can expend additional force points to modify the power. You gain two of the following Empowerment options of your choice. You gain another one at 10th and 17th level.
You can use only one Empowerment option on a power when you cast it, unless otherwise noted.
#h;CAREFUL POWER
When you cast a power that forces other creatures to make a saving throw, you can protect some of those creatures from the power’s full force. To do so, you spend 1 additional force point and choose a number of those creatures up to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, minimum of one). A chosen creature automatically succeeds on its saving throw against the power.
#h;DISTANT POWER
When you cast a power that has a range of 5 feet or greater, you can spend 1 additional force point to double the range of the power.
When you cast a power that has a range of touch, you can spend 1 additional force point to make the range of the power 30 feet.
#h;EXTENDED POWER
When you cast a power that has a duration of 1 minute or longer, you can spend 1 additional force point to double its duration, to a maximum duration of 24 hours.
#h;HEIGHTENED POWER
When you cast a power that forces a creature to make a saving throw to resist its effects, you can spend 3 additional force points to give one target of the power disadvantage on its first saving throw made against the power.
#h;IMPROVED POWER
When you roll damage for a power, you can spend 1 additional force point to reroll a number of the damage dice up to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, minimum of one). You must use the new rolls.
You can use Improved Power even if you have already used a different Empowerment option during the casting of the power.
#h;LINGERING POWER
When you cast a power that requires concentration to maintain you can choose to spend 3 additional force points. If you do, when you lose concentration on the power, the power will not end until the end of your next turn.
#h;PINPOINT POWER
When you cast a power that allows you to force creatures in an area to make a saving throw you can instead spend 1 force point and make a ranged force attack against a single target that would be in the range. On a hit the target suffers the effects as though they failed their saving throw.
#h;QUICKENED POWER
When you cast a power that has a casting time of 1 action, you can spend 2 additional force points to change the casting time to 1 bonus action for this casting.
#h;REFOCUSED POWER
When you are forced to make a Constitution saving throw to maintain concentration on a power you can use your reaction and spend 2 force points to automatically succeed on the saving throw. You can use this option even if you have already used a different Empowerment option during the casting of the power.
#h;TWINNED POWER
When you cast a power that targets only one creature and doesn’t have a range of self, you can spend a number of additional force points equal to the power’s level to target a second creature in range with the same power (1 force point if the power is at-will).
#fe;Force Shield;2
Also at 2nd level, you learn how to defend yourself purely through your strength with the Force. When you are hit by an attack, you can use your reaction to shroud yourself in Force energy. Until the start of your next turn, you have a bonus to AC equal to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, a minimum of +1). This includes the triggering attack.
You can use this feature twice. You gain an additional use at 5th, 11th, and 17th level in this class. You regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.
#fe;Force Affinity;3
When you reach 3rd level, you’ve developed an affinity for one of the three aspects of the Force: the Ashla, the Bendu, or the Bogan. Choose one from the following:
#ls;
#li; Ashla: When you successfully cast a light side power, either your or the target’s (your choice) hit point maximum and current hit points increase by an amount equal to the power’s level. This effect lasts for 1 minute. You can only have one instance of this effect active at a time.
#li; Bendu: You can add both your Wisdom and Charisma modifier to your maximum number of force points, instead of just one.
#li; Bogan: When you roll a 1 on a damage die for a dark side power, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll, even if the new roll is a 1.
#le;
#fe;Consular Tradition;3
Also at 3rd level, you choose a consular tradition, which is detailed at the end of the class description. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 6th, 10th, 14th, and 18th level.
#fe;Ability Score Improvement;
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see Chapter 6 for a list of feats).
#fe;One with the Force;20
At 20th level, your attunement to the Force is absolute. Your Wisdom or Charisma score increases by 4, and your maximum for this score increases by 4. Additionally, you gain mastery over a single force power, and can cast it with little effort. Choose one 3rd-level force power that you know as your signature power. You can cast it once at 3rd level without expending force points. When you do so, you can’t do so again until you finish a short or long rest.
If you want to cast it at a higher level, you must expend force points as normal.

#abh;Consular Tradition
#ab;Way of Balance
There is serenity in balance, and no one knows this better than the consular. Those consulars who follow the Way of Balance focus on utilizing the Force to equalize the battlefield. They bend the Force to shield their allies and expose their foes.
#abf;Force Barrier;3
When you choose this tradition at 3rd level, you can weave the Force around yourself for protection. When you cast a universal power of 1st level or higher, you can simultaneously manipulate the Force to create a barrier on yourself that lasts until you finish a long rest. The barrier has hit points equal to twice your consular level + your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice). Your barrier can never have hit points greater than twice your consular level + your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice).
Whenever you take damage, the barrier takes the damage instead. If this damage reduces the barrier to 0 hit points, you take any remaining damage.
While the barrier has 0 hit points, it can’t absorb damage, but its power remains. Whenever you cast a universal power of 1st level or higher, the barrier regains a number of hit points equal to twice the level of the power.
Once you create the barrier, you can’t create it again until you finish a long rest.
#abf;Projected Barrier;6
At 6th level, when a creature that you can see within 30 feet of you takes damage, you can use your reaction to cause your Force Barrier to absorb that damage. If this damage reduces the barrier to 0 hit points, the warded creature takes any remaining damage.
#abf;At-Will Barrier;10
Beginning at 10th level, your at-will universal powers grant a small boost to your Force Barrier. When you cast an at-will universal power, the barrier regains 1 hit point.
#abf;Improved Suppression;14
At 14th level, when you cast a force power that requires you to make an ability check as a part of casting that power, such as sever force or force suppression, you add your proficiency bonus to that ability check.
#abf;Force Resistance;18
Starting at 18th level, you have advantage on saving throws against force powers. Additionally, you have resistance against the damage of force powers.
#ab;Way Of Lightning
Of all of the dark arts of the Force, little can match the spectacle and devastation of Force lightning. Those consulars who follow the Way of Lightning summon intense discharges of pure Force energy, overwhelming enemies with punishing damage from a distance, leaving them shaken and vulnerable – if not dead.
#abf;Shocking Affinity;3
When you choose this tradition at 3rd level, when you cast a force power that deals lightning damage, you can use Wisdom or Charisma as your forcecasting ability for it.
Additionally, when you cast a damage dealing force power that requires an attack roll or saving throw, you can cause that power to instead deal lightning damage. If the power would call for a saving throw other than Dexterity, it instead calls for a Dexterity saving throw. If you hit with the power, or the target fails the power’s saving throw, affected creatures become shocked until the start of your next turn. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, a minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a short or long rest.
#abf;Potent Lightning;6
At 6th level you add your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, a minimum of +1) to any damage you deal with force powers that deal lightning damage that don’t already include that modifier.
#abf;Blistering Rebuke;10
Beginning at 10th level, when a creature within 5 feet of you that you can see hits you with an attack, you can use your reaction to cause the creature to make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 1d10 plus your consular level lightning damage, is pushed back 10 feet, and becomes shocked until the end of their next turn. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t moved or shocked.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, a minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.
#abf;Electric Attunement;14
At 14th level, you gain resistance to lightning damage. Additionally, force powers you cast ignore resistance to lightning damage.
#abf;Unlimited Power;18
Starting at 18th level, you can increase the power of your simpler lightning force powers. When you cast a force power of 6th-level or lower that deals lightning damage, you can deal maximum damage with that power.
You can use this feature with no adverse effects a number of times equal to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, a minimum of once). If you use this feature beyond this before you finish a long rest, you take 2d12 necrotic damage for each level of the power, immediately after you cast it. Each time you use this feature again before finishing a long rest, the necrotic damage per power level increases by 1d12. This damage can not be reduced in any way.
#ab;Way Of Suggestion
There is power in a light touch, and no one knows this better than the consular. Those consulars who follow the Way of Suggestion have honed their attunement to the Force, allowing them to disappear, despite being in plain sight.
#abf;Subtle Control;3
At 3rd level, you can befuddle a creature’s mind with nothing but a gesture. As an action, you can cause a creature you can see within 30 feet to make a Wisdom saving throw against your universal force save DC. On a failed save, you can force the creature to believe or forget a single aspect of a conversation, observation or encounter it had that you were present for in the past 10 minutes. Whether the creature succeeds or fails their saving throw, you can’t use this feature on them again until you finish a long rest.
Additionally, creatures who attempt to detect your use of the Force have disadvantage on ability checks to do so, and if a creature has the sense force or force sight power active, they must succeed on a universal forcecasting ability check against your universal force save DC in order to notice your usage of the Force, your alignment within the Force, or how strong your connection to the Force is.
#abf;Out of Mind;6
At 6th level, you can erase yourself from a single creature’s sight momentarily. As a bonus action, choose a creature within 60 feet of you that you are aware of. That creature must make a Wisdom saving throw against your universal force save DC. On a failed save, you become invisible to that creature for 1 minute, or until you deal damage to it.
Once you’ve used this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest.
#abf;Delicate Potency;10
Beginning at 10th level, your mind-affecting powers are particularly potent. When you cast one of cloud mind, dominate mind, mass coerce mind, and dominate monster, you can choose to treat the power as if cast at your Max Power Level.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, a minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.
#abf;Delayed Effect;14
At 14th level, when you cast a force power, you can delay the effects of the force power for up to a number of rounds equal to half your consular level. If you do so, the power immediately takes effect at the start of your turn, after the specified number of rounds have passed.
Once you’ve used this feature, you can’t use it again until you complete a long rest.
#abf;Subtle Presence;18
At 18th level, you’ve learned how to weave the Force around you in a cloak of your choice. As an action, you can focus the Force for 10 minutes. For the duration, you gain your choice of one of the following effects.
You can use each feature once. You regain all expended uses when you complete a long rest.
#bp;Cloak of Fright
Each creature of your choice that is within 60 feet must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw against your universal force save DC or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
#bp;Cloak of Invisibility
You and everything you are wearing or carrying become invisible to creatures of your choice. If you damage a creature or affect it with a force power, it can make a Wisdom saving throw against your universal force save DC. On a success, you are no longer invisible to that creature.
#bp;Cloak of Memory
Creatures that see you or any allies within 30 feet of you during this time cannot recall your physical appearances, your mannerisms, or any other identifying features.
Creatures that interact with you must make a Wisdom saving throw against your universal force save DC once the interaction ends. You can choose to exclude a creature from this effect. On a failed save, the creature forgets all details of the interaction, rationalizing any of its outcomes.
#ab;Way Of The Sage
The rejuvenating power of the Force is incredible, and the consular is the master of this usage. Those consulars who follow the Way of the Sage assist with an array of healing powers that grant allies the strength to continue through even the harshest of encounters. Separated from the heart of the fray, the sage can be an unfailing warden to those in need.
#abf;Disciple Of Life;3
When you choose this tradition at 3rd level, when you cast a force power that restores hit points, you can use Wisdom or Charisma as your forcecasting ability for it.
Additionally, whenever you use a power of 1st level or higher to restore hit points to a creature, the creature regains additional hit points equal to 2 + the power’s level.
#abf;Preserve Life;6
At 6th level, as an action, you can channel the Force and evoke healing energy that restores a number of hit points equal to five times your consular level. Choose any creatures within 30 feet of you, and divide those hit points among them. This feature can restore a creature to no more than half its hit point maximum. This feature has no effect on droids or constructs.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, a minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.
#abf;Blessed Healer;10
Beginning at 10th level, the healing powers you cast on others heal you as well. When you cast a force power that restores hit points to a creature other than you, you regain hit points equal to 2 + the power’s level.
#abf;Blessed By The Force;14
At 14th level you gain the ability to overcome grievous injuries. As a bonus action when you have fewer than half your hit points remaining, you can regain a number of hit points equal to half your hit point maximum.
Once you’ve used this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.
#abf;Supreme Healing;18
Starting at 18th level, when you would normally roll one or more dice to restore hit points with a power, you instead use the highest number possible for each die. For example, instead of restoring 2d6 hit points to a creature, you restore 12.

##;Engineer
#h;Engineer
Flinching occasionally as a blaster bolt hits the nearby bulkhead, a Sullustan mechanic quickly solders a large wire. He peers through his tinted goggles, ignoring the shouts of his ship captain as the enemy descends on the hanger. Finally he shouts with pride as the repaired coupling powers up, causing the frigate to hum with energy. He gathers his tools and runs into the ship moments before it finally takes off.
Inside, the human captain jumps into the cockpit. She nods to her droid co-pilot, who quickly begins charting a course home. Before the calculations can be completed, enemy Starfighters scream in from the clouds. The pilot rolls the ship, nimbly evading incoming fire. She reroutes the power to shields, leaving just enough for astronavigation. Just as the energy reserves near depletion, the exosphere and stars beyond blur into streaks of light. In a flash, they warp to safety.
A Cerean officer surveys the battlefield, looking for weaknesses. When he identifies a potential problem, he keys in a quick combination in his wristpad. In a blink, a custom suit of armor assembles itself around him. As the helmet locks into place, the officer leaps into the air, flying overhead and raining destruction on the opposition.
Every machine needs an engineer to run it, and a living crew is no different. Engineers are the experts and professionals who rely on skill, bravery, and their tools to survive and keep others alive. While they do not claim to be fighters, their mere presence can turn the tide of battle or simply keep operations running.
#h;Behind the Curtain
While perhaps not as intimidating as a heavily-armored trooper, or as exotic as a lighsaber-wielding guardian, engineers are no less vital to group dynamic. They are armorers and gunsmiths, electricians and welders, or any other facet to be found in facilities across the galaxy. Their work, often unsung, is what keeps starships (and their crew) intact.
#h;Unflappable
It takes bravery for a soldier to enter a battlefield. It perhaps takes more for someone who is unarmed, and untrained in combat, to do the same. Engineers put their lives on the line for a living, whether by choice or acknowledging their plights as an occupational hazard. Whether they come from an elite training academy or learned their talents surviving in the slums, they are no strangers to danger and conflict.
#h;CREATING AN ENGINEER
While creating your engineer character, consider what your primary skill set is and how you use it. You could be a street-smart mechanic who taught yourself how to fix swoop bikes as a teenager. Perhaps you are the recent graduate of an esteemed medical college, or a rookie pilot in the fledgling Rebel Alliance. What is the number one skill you are known for? Why are you willing to enter battles when you have no combat training? How do you view the more adventurous members of your group, and how do they see you and your role? 
#h;QUICK BUILD
You can make an engineer quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Intelligence your highest ability score. Your next-highest score should be Constitution. Second, choose the scientist background. 
#h;The Engineer
#ts;
#th;Level;Proficiency Bonus;Features;Tech Powers Known;Tech Points;Max Power Level;Potent Aptitude;Modification Slots;
#tr;1;+2;Techcasting, Potent Aptitude;6;2;1st;d4;-;
#tr;2;+2;Infuse Item(+1), Tool Expertise;7;4;1st;d4;-;
#tr;3;+2;Engineering Discipline;9;6;2nd;d4;4;
#tr;4;+2;Ability Score Improvement;10;8;2nd;d4;4;
#tr;5;+3;Quick Thinking;12;10;3rd;d6;5;
#tr;6;+3;Engineering Discipline Feature;13;12;3rd;d6;5;
#tr;7;+3;-;15;14;4th;d6;5;
#tr;8;+3;Ability Score Improvement;16;16;4;d6;5;
#tr;9;+4;-;18;18;5th;d8;6;
#tr;10;+4;Infuse Item(+2);19;20;5th;d8;6;
#tr;11;+4;-;21;22;6th;d8;7;
#tr;12;+4;Ability Score Improvement;22;24;6;d8;7;
#tr;13;+5;-;23;26;7th;d10;8;
#tr;14;+5;Engineering Discipline Feature;24;28;7th;d10;8;
#tr;15;+5;Infuse Item(+3);25;30;8th;d10;8;
#tr;16;+5;Ability Score Improvement;26;32;8th;d10;8;
#tr;17;+6;-;27;34;9th;d12;9;
#tr;18;+6;Engineering Discipline Feature;28;36;9th;d12;9;
#tr;19;+6;Ability Score Improvement;29;38;9th;d12;9;
#tr;20;+6;Tech Mastery;30;40;9th;d12;9;
#te;
#h;Class Features
As an engineer, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d8 per engineer level.
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier.
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per engineer level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armor: Light Armor
Weapons: Simple Blasters, Simple Vibroweapons
Tools: Tinker's tools and one of your choice
Saving Throws: Constitution, Intelligence
Skills: Choose three from Investigation, Lore, Medicine, Nature, Piloting, and Technology
Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
#ls;
#li;A Weapon
#li;(a) a simple vibroweapon or (b) a simple blaster and two power cells
#li;(a) a dungeoneer's pack or (b) an explorer's pack
#li;Combat suit, a set of tinker's tools, a vibrodagger, and a wristpad
#le;
VARIANT: STARTING WEALTH
In lieu of the equipment granted by your class and background, you can elect to purchase your starting gear. If you do so, you receive no equipment from your class and background, and instead roll for your starting wealth using 6d4 x 100 cr.
#fe;Techcasting;1
Beginning at 1st level, during your training you have derived powers from schematics with the aid of your wristpad. See chapter 10 for the general rules of techcasting and chapter 12 for the tech powers list.
#h;Tech Powers Known
You learn 6 tech powers of your choice, and you learn more at higher levels, as shown in the Tech Powers Known column of the engineer table. You may not learn a tech power of a level higher than your Max Power Level.
#h;Tech Points
You have a number of tech points equal to your engineer level x 2, as shown in the Tech Points column of the engineer table, + your Intelligence modifier. You use these tech points to cast tech powers. You regain all expended tech points when you finish a short or long rest.
#h;Max Power Level
Many tech powers can be overcharged, consuming more tech points to create a greater effect. You can overcharge these powers to a maximum level, which increases at higher levels, as shown in the Max Power Level column of the engineer table.
You may only cast tech powers at 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th-level once. You regain the ability to do so after a long rest.
#h;Techcasting Ability
Intelligence is your techcasting ability for your tech powers. You use your Intelligence whenever a power refers to your techcasting ability. Additionally, you use your Intelligence modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a tech power you cast and when making an attack roll with one.
#bp;Tech save DC
8 + your proficiency bonus +your Intelligence modifier
#bp;Tech attack modifier
your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier
#h;Techcasting Focus
You use a wristpad (found in chapter 5) or your tool proficiencies granted by this class as a techcasting focus for your tech powers.
#fe;Potent Aptitude;1
Also at 1st level, your technological experience lends you an uncommon insight that you can use to bolster your allies. To do so, you use a bonus action on your turn to choose one creature other than yourself within 60 feet of you who can hear you. That creature gains one Potent Aptitude die, a d4. This die changes as you gain engineer levels, as shown in the Potent Aptitude column of the engineer table.
Once within the next 10 minutes, the creature can roll the die and add the number rolled to one ability check, attack roll, or saving throw it makes. The creature can wait until after it rolls the d20 before deciding to use the Potent Aptitude die, but must decide before the GM says whether the roll succeeds or fails. Once the Potent Aptitude die is rolled, it is lost.
A creature can have only one Potent Aptitude die at a time.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (a minimum of once). You regain any expended uses when you finish a long rest.
#fe;Infuse Item;2
At 2nd level, you gain the ability to temporarily enhance a weapon or armor. At the end of a long rest, you can touch one unenhanced object that is a suit of armor, a shield, or a simple or martial weapon. Until the end of your next long rest or until you die, the object becomes an enhanced item, granting a +1 bonus to AC if it’s armor or a shield or a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls if it’s a weapon.
Once you’ve used this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.
This bonus increases to +2 at 10th level and +3 at 15th level.
#fe;Tool Expertise;2
Also at 2nd level, you gain expertise in any tool proficiencies you gain from this class.
#fe;Engineering Discipline;3
Starting at 3rd level, you begin to focus on a specific engineering discipline, which is detailed at the end of the class description. Your discipline grants you features at 3rd level and again at 6th, 14th, and 18th level.
#fe;Ability Score Improvement;
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see Chapter 6 for a list of feats).
#fe;Quick Thinking;5
Beginning when you reach 5th level, you regain all of your expended uses of Potent Aptitude when you finish a short or long rest.
#fe;Tech Mastery;20
At 20th level, your mastery of technology is unrivaled. Your Constitution and Intelligence scores increase by 2. Your maximum for those scores increases by 2.
Additionally, when you roll initiative and have no uses of Potent Aptitude left, you regain one use.

#abh;Engineer Disciplines
#ab;Armormech Engineering
Those engineers who choose the Armormech Engineering discipline focus on the ability to work with hard metals and electronic shielding to construct and enhance all types of personal armor.
#abf;Bonus Proficiencies;3
When you choose this discipline at 3rd level, you gain proficiency in armormech’s implements, medium armor, and heavy armor. Additionally, when you engage in crafting with armormech’s implements, the rate at which you craft doubles.
#abf;Modified Armor;3
Also at 3rd level, you learn to modify one unenhanced suit of armor or shield utilizing your armormech knowledge. Over the course of a long rest, you can modify one suit of armor or a shield. You must have the armor or shield and armormech’s implements in order to perform this modification.
Your modified armor or shield is enhanced, requires attunement, can only be used by you, and counts as a tech focus for your tech powers while you are attuned to it. Your modified armor has 4 modification slots, and it gains more at higher levels, as shown in the Modification Slots column of the engineer table. For each modification installed in excess of your proficiency bonus, your tech point maximum is reduced by 1. Over the course of a long rest, you can replace or remove a number of modifications up to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of one).
Some modification effects require saving throws. When you use such an effect from this class, the DC equals your tech save DC.
At 9th level, you can maintain both a modified suit of armor and shield. Each modified item has modification slots as shown in the Modification Slots column of the engineer table.
#zls;
#zl;engineer_feature;Armormech Modifications
#zle;
#abf;Damage Absorption;3
Lastly at 3rd level, when you take damage, you can use your reaction and expend one use of your Potent Aptitude to absorb some of that damage. When you do so, the damage you take from the attack is reduced by the amount rolled on the die + your Intelligence modifier (minimum of one).
#abf;Extra Attack;6
Beginning at 6th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. You must be wearing your modified armor or wielding your modified shield to gain this benefit.
#abf;Armormech's Celerity;14
At 14th level, when you take the Attack action or use your action to a cast a tech power of 1st-level or higher, you can make one weapon attack as a bonus action.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (a minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you complete a long rest.
#abf;Suit Reliability;18
Starting at 18th level, your suit is like a second skin. Whenever you make an ability check or saving throw that uses Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution, you can treat a d20 roll of 9 or lower as a 10. You must be wearing your modified armor or wielding your modified shield to gain this benefit.
#abf;Armormech Modifications;
If a modification has prerequisites, you must meet them to install it. You can install the modification at the same time that you meet its prerequisites.
#ts;
#th;Name;Prerequisites;Description;
#tr;Absorption Shield;Physical Shield;You modify your physical shield to block incoming damage. As a bonus action you can activate this ability and gain temporary hit points equal to 1d4 + Intelligence modifier, which last for one hour. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (a minimum of once). You regain any expended uses when you finish a long rest.;
#tr;Accelerated Movement;Armor;You reduce the weight of your modified armor’s bulk and increase the power to joints. If the armor has a Strength requirement, you ignore it. The modified armor’s weight is reduced by 15 lbs. While wearing your modified armor your speed increases by 10 feet. This applies to all movement speeds you have while wearing your armor.;
#tr;Adaptable Armor;Armor;You integrate deployable hooks and fins into your armor, augmenting its mobility. While wearing your modified armor, you gain a climbing speed equal to your walking speed, and you can move up, down, and across vertical surfaces and upside down along ceilings, while leaving your hands free. Additionally, you gain a swim speed equal to your walking speed.;
#tr;Advanced Power Fist;Level 11, Prototype Power Fist;You further modify your modified armor’s gauntlet with increased reinforcement and weight. Your modified armor’s unarmed strike deals 1d8 kinetic damage. Additionally, your critical hit range with your unarmed strikes increases by 1.;
#tr;Artificially Intelligent;Level 9, Armor;You install an artificial intelligence into your modified armor. While wearing your modified armor, when you make an ability check, your armor’s artificial intelligence can take the Help action. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (a minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you complete a long rest.;
#tr;Bonded Plates;Level 5;You gain a +1 bonus to AC against melee attacks. This bonus increases to +2 at 9th level and +3 at 13th level.;
#tr;Collapsible Suit;Level 5, Armor; Your modified armor can collapse into a case for easy storage. When transformed this way the armor is indistinguishable from a normal case and weighs 1/3 its normal weight. As an action you can don or doff the armor, allowing it to transform as needed.;
#tr;Darkvision Visor;Armor;While wearing your modified armor, you have darkvision to a range of 60 feet. If you already have darkvision, this modification increases its range by 30 feet.;
#tr;Enhanced Endurance;Armor;When you are reduced to 0 hit points while wearing your modified armor but not killed outright, you can drop to 1 hit point instead. You can’t use this feature again until you finish a long rest.;
#tr;Electroshock Shield;Shield Generator;You install electroshockers in your shield generator. Whenever an enemy misses you with a melee attack, you can use your reaction to do 1d4 + your Intelligence modifier lightning damage to the attacker.;
#tr;Flight;Level 9, Armor;You integrate a propulsion system into your modified armor. While wearing your modified armor you have an enhanced flying speed of 30 feet.;
#tr;Grappling Harpoon;Armor;Your modified armor gains an integrated grappling harpoon set into your gauntlet. With this harpoon, you can make a ranged weapon attack with a range of 30/60. On a hit, it deals 1d6 kinetic damage. This attack can target a surface, object, or creature. A creature struck by this attack is impaled by the harpoon. As an action, a creature can attempt to remove the harpoon. Removing the harpoon requires a Strength check. While the harpoon is stuck in the target, you are connected to the target by a 60 foot cable. While the harpoon is deployed, you can use your bonus action to activate the reel, pulling yourself to the location if the target is larger than you. A creature or object your size or smaller is pulled to you. Alternatively, you can opt to release the cable (no action required). Once you’ve used this feature, you can’t use it again until you recover and reinsert the harpoon as an action.;
#tr;Heavy Suit;Level 5, Armor;You enhance your suit, making it difficult to move. As a bonus action, you can anchor your feet to the ground. While anchored, your speed is 0, you have advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws, and your carrying capacity and the weight you can push, drag, or lift doubles. If it would already double, it instead triples.;
#tr;Infiltration Suit;Armor;You install a cloaking device in your modified armor. This device has 2 charges. As an action you can use 1 charge to cast infiltrate targeting yourself. The cloaking device regains all expended charges after a long rest.;
#tr;Magnetized Shield;Physical Shield;You modify your physical shield such that when a melee weapon attack misses you by an amount less than or equal to your bonus to AC from your shield, the attacking creature must make a Strength check against your tech save DC. On a failed save, the creature’s weapon adheres to the shield. As an action, a creature can repeat this check. On a success, the weapon is freed.;
#tr;Overload Shield;Shield Generator; You modify your shield generator to overload. As an action you can overload your shield. Each Large or smaller creature within 5 feet of you must make a Dexterity or Strength saving throw (their choice) against your tech save DC. On a failed save, they are pushed back 5 feet and knocked prone. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (a minimum of once). You regain any expended uses when you finish a long rest.;
#tr;Power Fist;Armor;You modify your modified armor gauntlet with increased reinforcement and weight. Your modified armor’s unarmed strike deals 1d4 kinetic damage. Additionally, when you take the Attack action and make an unarmed attack, you can make an additional unarmed attack as a bonus action.;
#tr;Prototype Power Fist;Level 5, Armor, Power Fist;You further modify your modified armor gauntlet with increased reinforcement and weight. Your modified armor’s unarmed strike deals 1d6 kinetic damage and has the following property. If you or your target move at least 10 feet in a straight line immediately before making an unarmed attack, the first unarmed attack you make deals additional damage equal to your Intelligence modifier.;
#tr;Reinforced Underlay;Level 5;You gain a +1 bonus to AC against ranged attacks. This bonus increases to +2 at 9th level and +3 at 13th level.;
#tr;Resistance;Armor;You tune your modified armor against certain forms of damage. Choose acid, cold, fire, ion, lightning, or sonic damage. While wearing your modified armor you have resistance to that type of damage. You can select this modification multiple times. Each time you do so, you must choose a different damage type.;
#tr;Sealed Suit;Level 5, Armor;As a bonus action you can hermetically seal your modified armor, giving you an air supply for up to 1 hour and making you immune to poison (but not curing you of existing poisoned conditions). Your armor regains 1 minute of air for every minute that you are not submerged and the armor is not sealed. Additionally, while you are wearing your modified armor you are considered adapted to cold and hot climates as well as high altitude, as described in chapter 5 of the DMG.;
#tr;Sentient Armor;Level 13, Artificially Intelligent;Your artificial intelligence has learned to control the suit without you being in it. It is now a valid target of the tracker droid interface tech power. While your armor is acting independently, it uses your ability scores, saving throws, and skills, and it has hit points equal to your engineer level. If reduced to 0 hit points, it falls directly to the ground, and it can not be equipped again until you finish a long rest.;
#tr;Shield Amplifier;Shield Generator; You modify your shield generator to project outward. As a bonus action you can amplify your shield until the start of your next turn. Each creature within 5 feet of you gains a bonus to AC equal to your shield’s bonus. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (a minimum of once). You regain any expended uses when you finish a long rest.;
#tr;Shield Anchor;Physical Shield;You modify your shield to be used as a portable source of cover. As an action, you can anchor or recover the shield. While anchored, you gain no benefit from a shield, and it does not require the use of a hand. Instead, while anchored, a light shield provides one-quarter cover, a medium shield provides half cover, and a large shield provides three-quarters cover.;
#tr;Tech Blast;Armor;You modify your modified armor gauntlet with a blaster weapon with which you are proficient. The weapon uses your Intelligence modifier for its attack and damage rolls, and deals 1d8 energy damage on a hit. It has a normal range of 30 feet and a long range of 120 feet.;
#tr;Weapon Integration Armoring;Armor;You can integrate a single weapon that weighs no more than 8 lb. into your armor. While integrated, that weapon gains the hidden property. Additionally, you have advantage on Strength saving throws to avoid being disarmed.;
#te;
#ab;Armstech Engineering
Those engineers who choose the Armstech Engineeering discipline focus on the skill of constructing and modifying blasters and vibroweapons.
#abf;Bonus Proficiencies;3
When you choose this discipline at 3rd level, you gain proficiency in armstech’s implements, medium armor, martial blasters, and martial vibroweapons. Additionally, when you engage in crafting with armstech’s implements, the rate at which you craft doubles.
#abf;Modified Weaponry;3
Also at 3rd level, you learn to modify one unenhanced weapon with which you are proficient utilizing your armstech experience. Over the course of a long rest, you can modify the weapon. You must have the weapon and armstech’s implements in order to perform this modification.
Your modified weapon is enhanced, requires attunement, can only be used by you, and counts as a tech focus for your tech powers while you are attuned to it. Your modified weapon has 4 modification slots, and it gains more at higher levels, as shown in the Modification Slots column of the engineer table. For each modification installed in excess of your proficiency bonus, your tech point maximum is reduced by 1. Over the course of a long rest, you can replace or remove a number of modifications up to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of one).
Some modification effects require saving throws. When you use such an effect from this class, the DC equals your tech save DC.
At 9th level, you can maintain two modified weapons. Each modified weapon has modification slots as shown in the Modification Slots column of the engineer table.
#zls;
#zl;engineer_feature;Armstech Modifications
#zle;
#abf;Close Call;3
Lastly at 3rd level, when you make an attack roll with your modified weapon and miss, you can expend one use of your Potent Aptitude to attempt to turn that miss into a hit. Roll the die and add it to the attack roll.
#abf;Armstech's Strike;6
Beginning at 6th level, once per round, when you deal damage to a creature with your modified weapon, you can increase the damage by 1d6. The damage is of the same type as the weapon’s damage.
The damage increases to 2d6 at 11th level and 3d6 at 17th level.
#abf;Targeting Matrix;14
At 14th level, when you cast a tech power that allows you to force creatures in an area to make a saving throw, you can instead make an attack roll with your modified weapon against a single target that would be in the range of the power. On a hit, the target suffers the effects as though they failed their saving throw. If the power would affect more than one creature, it instead affects only one.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (a minimum of once). You regain any expended uses when you finish a long rest.
#abf;Armstech's Salvo;18
Starting at 18th level, when you use your Targeting Matrix feature, and the tech power would affect more than one creature, you can instead attack each affected creature that would be in the range of the power. Make a separate attack roll for each target. On a hit, each target suffers the effects as though they failed their saving throw.
#abf;Armstech Modifications;
If a modification has prerequisites, you must meet them to install it. You can install the modification at the same time that you meet its prerequisites.
#ts;
#th;Name;Prerequisites;Description;
#tr;Accuracy Focus;Level 5, Blaster;You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls made with this weapon. This bonus increases to +2 at 9th level and +3 at 13th level.;
#tr;Amplifying Barrel;Level 5, Blaster;You gain a +1 bonus to damage rolls made with this weapon. This bonus increases to +2 at 9th level and +3 at 13th level.;
#tr;Bayonet;Blaster;You affix a short blade to the barrel of your modified blaster weapon, allowing you to make a melee weapon attack with it. The blade is a melee weapon with the finesse property that you are proficient with, and deals 1d6 kinetic damage.;
#tr;Burst Core;Blaster;Your weapon gains the burst property, with a burst number equal to its reload number.;
#tr;Booming Strikes;Level 5;You pack extra power into your modified weapon. Once per turn, when you hit with the weapon, you can deal an additional 1d6 damage. If you do so, the weapon makes a loud boom which can be heard 100 feet away. If you are hidden, Intelligence (Investigation) and Wisdom (Perception) checks made to locate you that rely on sound have advantage.;
#tr;Celerity Oscillator;;Once per turn, when you deal damage with your modified weapon, your walking speed increases by 10 feet until the start of your next turn, and the damaged creature can’t make opportunity attacks against you for the rest of your turn.;
#tr;Collapsible Frame;Vibroweapon;You install an expandable hilt on your modified weapon. Your modified weapon gains the reach property.;
#tr;Contoured Grip;Level 5, Vibroweapon;You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls made with this weapon. This bonus increases to +2 at 9th level and +3 at 13th level.;
#tr;Expanded Magazine;Blaster;Your modified weapon can be more efficiently reloaded. You can reload your modified weapon once without using an action. You can’t use this feature again until you reload the weapon with an action.;
#tr;Flashlight;;You affix a targeted light to your weapon. As a bonus action, you can toggle the light on or off. While on, your weapon sheds bright light in a 60-foot cone.;
#tr;Harpoon Reel;;You install a secondary firemode that launches a harpoon attached to a tightly coiled cord. With this harpoon, you can make a ranged weapon attack with a range of 30/60. On a hit, it deals 1d6 kinetic damage. This attack can target a surface, object, or creature. A creature struck by this attack is impaled by the harpoon. As an action, a creature can attempt to remove the harpoon. Removing the harpoon requires a Strength check. While the harpoon is stuck in the target, you are connected to the target by a 60 foot cable. While connected in this manner, you can use your bonus action to activate the reel, pulling yourself to the location if the target is your size or larger. A creature or object smaller than you is pulled to you. Alternatively, you can opt to release the cable (no action required). Once you’ve used this feature, you can’t use it again until you recover and reinsert the harpoon as an action.;
#tr;Imbue Weapon;Level 9; You modify your weapon to carry a charge. Over the course of a short rest, you can cast an at-will tech power, channeling it into your weapon. The next time you hit with your weapon, the stored power is released. If the power would require an attack roll, make a tech attack roll. If the power would require a saving throw, the target must make the saving throw as normal. On a hit, or a failure, the target suffers the power’s normal effects.;
#tr;Improved Burst Core;Level 9, Burst Core;Your weapon’s burst number is reduced to half its reload number.;
#tr;Integrated Magazine;Expanded Magazine;Your modified weapon can be more efficiently reloaded. You can reload your modified weapon twice without using an action. You can’t use this feature again until you reload the weapon with an action.;
#tr;Jagged Oscillator;Vibroweapon;When you critically hit with the weapon, you deal an additional 1d8 kinetic damage.;
#tr;Keen Oscillator;Level 5, Jagged Oscillator;Your weapon’s critical hit range increases by 1.;
#tr;Neutronium Edge;Level 5, Vibroweapon;You gain a +1 bonus to damage rolls made with this weapon. This bonus increases to +2 at 9th level and +3 at 13th level.;
#tr;Overcharge Weapon;Level 11, Booming Strikes;You gain the ability to channel your tech power to enhance your weapon’s damage. You can expend one tech slot to deal additional damage to the target. The extra damage is 1d6 for a 1st-level tech slot, plus 1d6 for each slot level higher than 1st, to a maximum of 5d6. The damage is the same type as the weapon damage. If you also use your Booming Strikes with an attack, you add this damage to the extra damage of your Booming Strikes.;
#tr;Power Loop;Level 9;When you hit with the weapon, you can choose channel the energy generated, gaining temporary hit points equal to half the damage dealt. Once you’ve used this feature, you must complete a long rest before you can use it again.;
#tr;Recoil Dampener;Blaster with the strength property;You install a recoil dampener in your modified blaster, removing the strength property from it.;
#tr;Returning Weapon Guard;Vibroweapon;You install a retractible chain in your modified vibroweapon. If the weapon does not already have the thrown property, it gains it with a range of 20/60. Additionally, it gains the returning property.;
#tr;Screening Weapon;;You modify your modified weapon with a sound dampening module. When you make a weapon attack with your weapon while hidden, Investigation and Perception checks made to locate you that rely on sound have disadvantage.;
#tr;Shock Absorber;;You add a reclamation device to your modified weapon to gather energy from the surroundings when it is present. While wielding your modified weapon, you can cast the absorb energy tech power and the power’s extra damage applies to both melee and ranged weapon attacks.;
#tr;Siege Weapon;;You modify your weapon to be more effective against barriers. Your weapon deals double damage against structures.;
#tr;Shocking Harpoon;Level 9, Harpoon Reel;After hitting a creature with the harpoon fire mode, you can use the connection to deliver an at-will tech power. As a bonus action, you can cast an at-will tech power at the target with a range of touch. If the power requires an attack roll, you have advantage. If the target requires a saving throw, the target has disadvantage. Once you’ve used this feature, you can’t use it again until you recover the harpoon.;
#tr;Shocking Oscillator;Level 9, Vibroweapon;When you hit with the weapon, you can create an electronic burst. Each creature in a 15-foot cone centered on the creature you hit must make a Dexterity saving throw against your tech save DC, taking 1d8 lightning damage on a failed save or half as much on a successful one. Once you’ve used this feature, you must complete a long rest before you can use it again.;
#tr;Snap Fire;Level 9, Blaster;You modify your modified blaster weapon for quick shots. You can use your reaction to take a opportunity attack with your modified weapon if an enemy comes within 10 feet of you. You have disadvantage on this attack.;
#tr;Stabilizer Cell;Vibroweapon with the dexterity property;You install a stabilizer cell in your modified vibroweapon, removing the dexterity property from it.;
#tr;Staggering Oscillator;Vibroweapon;When you hit with the weapon, you can force the target to make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is pushed back 10 feet and knocked prone. Once you’ve used this feature, you must complete a short or long rest before you can use it again.;
#tr;Tracker;Level 5;You add a tracking mechanism to your modified weapon. The tracker has 3 charges. As an action you can use 1 charge to cast target lock. As an action you can use 2 charges to cast detect invisibility. The tracker regains all expended charges after a long rest.;
#tr;Truelight;Level 11, Flashlight;When toggled on, your flashlight now automatically dispels illusions and can detect invisibility, as with truesight.;
#tr;Venomous Oscillator;Level 9, Vibroweapon;As a bonus action, you can coat your weapon in a thin layer of poison for 1 minute. The next time you hit with the weapon, the creature must make a Constitution saving throw against your tech save DC. On a failed save, a creature takes 1d10 poison damage and becomes poisoned for 1 minute. Once you’ve used this feature, you must complete a long rest before you can use it again.;
#te;

#ab;Gadgeteer Engineering
Those engineers who choose the Gadgeteer discipline focus on the ability to craft reusable consumables and items that augment and complement their techcasting abilities.
#abf;Bonus Proficiencies;3
When you choose this discipline at 3rd level, you gain proficiency in gadgeteer’s implements. Additionally, when you engage in crafting with gadgeteer’s implements, the rate at which you craft doubles.
#abf;Gadgeteer Harness;3
Also at 3rd level, you learn to create and modify adventuring gear utilizing your gadgeteer experience. Over the course of a long rest, you can create your modified gadgeteer harness. You must have gadgeteer’s implements in order to perform this modification.
Your gadgeteer harness is enhanced, requires attunement, can only be used by you, and counts as a tech focus for your tech powers while you are attuned to it. Your gadgeteer harness has 4 modification slots to which you can affix gadgets, and it gains more at higher levels, as shown in the Modification Slots column of the engineer class table. For each modification installed in excess of your proficiency bonus, your tech point maximum is reduced by 1. Over the course of a long rest, you can replace or remove a number of modifications up to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of one).
Some modification effects require saving throws. When you use such an effect from this class, the DC equals your tech save DC.
#zls;
#zl;engineer_feature;Gadgeteer Contraptions
#zle;
#abf;Projected Barrier;3
Lastly at 3rd level, as a bonus action while wearing your gadgeteer harness, you can expend a use of your Potent Aptitude to project a barrier on a friendly creature you can see within 30 feet. A creature can only have one barrier active at a time.
#bp;Environmental Barrier
You project an environmental barrier that lasts until the end of your next short or long rest. The barrier has a number of hit points equal to the amount rolled on your Potent Aptitude die + your engineer level. Whenever a creature with this barrier takes damage (one of acid, cold, fire, force, lightning, necrotic, poison, psychic, or sonic, chosen by you when you activate the effect), the barrier takes the damage instead. If this damage reduces the barrier to 0 hit points, the creature take any remaining damage.
#bp;Physical Barrier
You project a physical barrier that lasts until the end of your next short or long rest. The barrier has a number of hit points equal to the amount rolled on your Potent Aptitude die + half your engineer level (rounded down). Whenever a creature with this barrier takes damage (one of energy, ion, or kinetic, chosen by you when you activate the effect), the barrier takes the damage instead. If this damage reduces the barrier to 0 hit points, the creature take any remaining damage.
#abf;Versatile Direction;6
Beginning at 6th level, you can take a second bonus action on each of your turns.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (a minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.
#abf;Reinforced Barriers;14
At 14th level, when you cast a tech power while you have a barrier active, you can restore hit points to the barrier, provided it is within 30 feet of you. You restore a number of hit points equal to twice the power’s level, or 1 hit point for an at-will power. This can’t increase a barrier’s hit points above its initial hit points. If you have multiple barriers active, you can divide these hit points between them as you see fit.
#abf;Adaptive Barrier;18
Starting at 18th level, when a creature who has one of your barriers within 30 feet of you that you can see takes damage, and that damage is of a type that could be affected by that barrier, you can use your reaction to grant them resistance to the triggering damage. If that damage is the same type as the barrier’s chosen damage, you instead grant them immunity. Whether resistance or immunity, the barrier immediately drops to 0 hit points.
#abf;Gadgeteer Contraptions;
If a modification has prerequisites, you must meet them to install it. You can install the modification at the same time that you meet its prerequisites.
#ts;
#th;Name;Prerequisites;Description;
#tr;Advanced Grounding System;Level 13, Prototype Grounding System;While wearing your gadgeteer harness you have immunity to lightning damage.;
#tr;Auto-Injection Regenerator;Level 5;You install a special kolto injector into your gadgeteer harness that can inject you with kolto in response to pain. When you take damage, you can use your reaction and expend a Hit Die to regain health as long as the damage would not reduce your hit points to 0.;
#tr;Autothrusters;Jet Pack;You can take the Dash and Disengage actions as a bonus action while your jet pack is active.;
#tr;Climbing Gloves;;You craft a set of gloves with a powerful assisted grip. While wearing these gloves, you have a climbing speed of 20 feet, and you have advantage on Strength saving throws and Strength (Athletics) checks that involve climbing.;
#tr;Darkvision Goggles;;You craft a pair of sight-enhancing goggles. While wearing these goggles, you have darkvision to a range of 60 feet. If you already have darkvision, this modification increases its range by 30 feet.;
#tr;Extended Tank;Level 5, Jet Pack;Your jet pack now lasts up to 10 minutes when activated.;
#tr;Flame Vents;Level 9, Jet Pack;You learn the flame sweep tech power and can cast it at first level without using tech points. Once you have used this ability, you cannot use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Additionally, while your jet pack is active, you can cast flame sweep using your bonus action instead of your action.;
#tr;Grounding System;;While wearing your gadgeteer harness you are immune to the shocked condition.;
#tr;Integrated Inhibitor;Level 5;While using your harness as a tech focus, you gain a +1 bonus to your tech save DC. This bonus increases to +2 at 9th level and +3 at 13th level.;
#tr;Integrated Targeter;Level 5;While using your harness as a tech focus, you gain a +1 bonus to tech attack rolls. This bonus increases to +2 at 9th level and +3 at 13th level.;
#tr;Intelligence Core Override;Level 9;You can cast the override interface tech power at 5th level without spending tech points. Once you’ve used this feature, you must complete a long rest before you can use it again.;
#tr;Jet Pack;;You add integrate a jet pack into your gadgeteer harness to grant you temporary, limited flight. Activating or deactivating the jets requires a bonus action and, while active, you have a flying speed of 30 feet. The jet pack last for 1 minute before deactivating. Once the jets have been activated, they can’t be activated again until you finish a short or long rest. Your jet pack’s speed increases to 40 feet at 5th level, 50 feet at 9th level, 60 feet at 13th level, 70 feet at 17th level, and 80 feet at 20th level.;
#tr;Mechanical Arm;;You create a mechanical arm which mounts to your shoulder, which you can use independently. You can only gain the benefit of items held by two of your arms at any given time. You can choose this modification twice.;
#tr;Mimicker;Level 9;You create a device that attaches to your gadgeteer harness. Your mimicker casts a shadow that makes you appear to be standing in a place near your actual location, causing any creature to have disadvantage on attack rolls against you. If you take damage, the property ceases to function for 1 minute. Your mimicker is suppressed while you are incapacitated, restrained, or otherwise unable to move.;
#tr;Miniaturized Hydraulics;;Your gadgeteer harness can store 20 pounds of equipment without adding to your encumbrance.;
#tr;Oil Spill;;As an action, you can cast the oil slick tech power without expending tech points. Casting the power in this way does not require concentration, and the oil will remain in place for the full duration of the power. Once you’ve used this feature, you must complete a short or long rest before you can use it again.;
#tr;Powered Grappling Hook;Level 9, Wrist-Mounted Grappling Hook;While your wrist-mounted grappling hook is deployed, when you cast a tech power with a range of touch, your hook can deliver the power as if it had cast it.;
#tr;Prototype Grounding System;Level 9, Grounding System;While wearing your gadgeteer harness you have resistance to lightning damage.;
#tr;Quick Start Engine;Level 5, Jet Pack;You can now activate your Jet Pack as an object interaction rather than as a bonus action.;
#tr;Recycled Adrenals;;You can augment a single adrenal to regain its charge. This adrenal can only be used by you, and it can only affect you. Once you’ve used this adrenal, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest.;
#tr;Recycled Explosives;;You can augment a single explosive to regain its charge. This explosive can only be used by you, and it uses your tech save DC instead of its own, unless its own DC would be higher. Once you’ve used this explosive, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest.;
#tr;Recycled Stimpacs;;You can augment a single stimpac to regain its charge. This stimpac can only be used by you, and it can only affect you. Once you’ve used this stimpac, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest.;
#tr;Sentry Turret;;You learn how to craft small sentry turrets shaped like globes that can adhere to any surface. As an action or bonus action (your choice), you can throw a sentry to a point you can see within range (30 feet + your Strength modifier x 5). At the end of each of your turns, a deployed sentry automatically targets a hostile creature within 10 feet of it. If multiple targets are available, one is chosen at random. The target must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 1d4 energy damage and gains 1 slowed level until the end of your next turn. If a creature would be targeted by more than one of these sentries, it only makes this saving throw once, taking an additional d4 damage for each sentry beyond the first. The sentries have 1 hit point, an armor class of 10, and can be repaired over the course of a long rest. Each sentry lasts for 1 minute before deactivating. You can maintain a number of sentries equal to your Intelligence modifier. Once a sentry has been activated, it can’t be activated again until you finish a short or long rest.;
#tr;Shocking Hook;Level 9, Wrist-Mounted Grappling Hook;After hitting a creature with your grappling hook, you can use the connection to deliver an at-will tech power. As a bonus action, you can cast an at-will tech power at the target with a range of touch. If the power requires an attack roll, you have advantage. If the target requires a saving throw, the target has disadvantage. Once you’ve used this feature, you can’t use it again until you recover the harpoon.;
#tr;Stealth Field Generator;Level 9;You create an augmented belt that functions as a portable, personal cloaking device. Activating or deactivating the generator requires a bonus action and, while active, you have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) ability checks that rely on sight. The generator lasts for 1 minute. This effect ends early if you make an attack or cast a force- or tech- power. Once the belt has been activated, it can’t be activated again until you finish a short or long rest.;
#tr;Shocking Barrier;Level 5;You enhanced your barriers. Whenever a creature with one of your barriers active takes damage from a creature within 5 feet of it, the damaged creature can roll your Potent Aptitude die, dealing the result of the die as lightning damage to the creature that damaged it.;
#tr;Truesight Goggles;Level 11, Darkvision Goggles;You modify your goggles with a toggle allowing you to briefly gain enhanced sight. As a bonus action, you can activate the truesight feature of your goggles. When toggled on, for the next minute your goggles now automatically dispel illusions and can detect invisibility, as with truesight. Once you’ve used this feature, you must complete a short or long rest before you can use it again.;
#tr;Weapon Integration;;You can integrate a single weapon that weighs no more than 8 lb. into your gadgeteer harness. While integrated, that weapon gains the hidden and fixed properties.;
#tr;Wrist-Mounted Grappling Hook;;You craft a wrist-mounted grappling hook weapon attached to a tightly coiled cord. With this contraption, you can make a ranged weapon attack with a range of 30/60. On a hit, it deals 1d4 kinetic damage. This attack can target a surface, object, or creature. A creature struck by this attack is impaled by the hook. As an action, a creature can attempt to remove the hook. Removing the hook requires a Strength check. While the hook is stuck in the target, you are connected to the target by a 60 foot cable. While the hook is deployed, you can use your bonus action to activate the reel, pulling yourself to the location if the target is your size or larger. A creature or object smaller than you is pulled to you. Alternatively, you can opt to release the cable (no action required). Once you’ve used this feature, you can’t use it again until you recover and reinsert the hook as an action.;
#te;

#ab;Unstable Engineering
Those engineers who choose the Unstable Engineering discipline create and use untested combinations, resulting in powerful and often unpredictable effects.
#abf;Bonus Proficiencies;3
When you choose this discipline at 3rd level, you gain proficiency in a set of implements of your choice. Additionally, when you engage in crafting with tinker’s implements, the rate at which you craft doubles.
#abf;Modified Tinkercannon;3
Also at 3rd level, you learn to enhance your tinker’s implements with unstable science, modifying them into a harness with a cannon. Over the course of a long rest, you can modify your tinker’s implements to create a tinkercannon. You must have tinker’s implements in order to perform this modification.
Whenever you cast a tech power of 1st level or higher while wielding your tinkercannon, you risk unexpected complications. Your GM can have you roll a d20. If you roll a 1, roll on the Unstable Engineering Surge table to create a random effect.
Additionally, your tinkercannon come equipped with 4 overrides, and they gain more at higher levels, as shown in the Modification Slots column of the engineer table. Each time you trigger an Unstable Engineering Surge, you can use an override to reroll the percentile dice. You must use the new result, you can only do this once per surge, and each time you do so in excess of your proficiency bonus (resetting on a long rest) your maximum tech points is reduced by 1 until you complete a long rest. You regain all expended overrides when you complete a long rest.
#zls;
#zl;engineer_feature;Unstable Engineering Surge
#zle;
#abf;Unstable Volley;3
Lastly at 3rd level, while wielding your tinkercannon, as a bonus action you can expend one use of your Potent Aptitude to launch a volley of unstable energy at a surface located within 30 feet of you that you can see. This energy adheres to the surface for 1 minute, after which it erupts. As a part of this bonus action, or as a bonus action on a following turn, you can cause the energy to erupt early. Each creature within 5 feet of it must make a Dexterity saving throw against your tech save DC. A creature takes 1d6 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one.
The range at which you can launch your volley increases to 60 feet at 9th level, and 120 feet at 17th level.
This damage increases when you reach certain levels in this class, increasing to 2d6 at 5th level, 3d6 at 11th level, and 4d6 at 17th level.
#abf;Creative Destruction;6
Beginning at 6th level, you can add your Intelligence modifier (a minimum of +1) to any damage you deal with tech powers and class features. If the tech power or class feature would damage multiple creatures, you can only deal this additional damage to one of them.
If you choose to deal this additional damage, your GM can have you roll on the Unstable Engineering Surge table.
#abf;Experimental Overrides;14
At 14th level, you gain a modicum of control over your surges. Whenever you roll on the Unstable Engineering Surge table and use one of your overrides, you can choose either total.
#abf;Engineering Bombardment;18
Starting at 18th level, the harmful energies of your tech powers and class features intensify. When you roll damage for a tech power or class feature and roll the highest number possible on any of the dice, you can roll it again and use both results. You can only use this ability once per tech power or class feature.
#abf;Unstable Engineering Surge;
#ts;
#th;d100;Result;
#tr;01-02;Roll on this table at the start of each of your turns for 1 minute, ignoring this result on subsequent rolls.;
#tr;03-04;For the next minute, you can see any invisible creature if you have line of sight to it.;
#tr;05-06;A DRK-1 tracker droid appears with 5 feet of you, then disappears 1 minute later.;
#tr;07-08;You cast explosion at 3rd-level centered on yourself without expending tech points.;
#tr;09-10;You cast homing rockets at 5th-level without expending tech points.;
#tr;11-12;Roll a d10. Your height changes by a number of inches equal to the roll: if odd, you shrink; if even, you grow.;
#tr;13-14;You fall asleep standing for 1 minute or until you take damage.;
#tr;15-16;For the next minute, you regain 5 hit points at the start of each of your turns;
#tr;17-18;You grow a long beard made of feathers that remains until you sneeze.;
#tr;19-20;You cast oil slick centered on yourself without expending tech points.;
#tr;21-22;Creatures have disadvantage on the first saving throw they make against you in the next minute.;
#tr;23-24;Your skin turns a vibrant shade of blue. Any effect that ends a curse ends this.;
#tr;25-26;You grow an extra eye, granting advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight for 1 minute.;
#tr;27-28;For the next minute, all your tech powers with a casting time of 1 action have a casting time of 1 bonus action.;
#tr;29-30;You teleport up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space of your choice that you can see.;
#tr;31-32;You take 2d10 lightning damage and are shocked for 1 minute.;
#tr;33-34;Maximize the damage of the next damaging tech power you cast within the next minute.;
#tr;35-36;Roll a d10. Your age changes by a number of years equal to the roll: if odd, younger; if even, older.;
#tr;37-38;You start running uncontrollably for 1 minute, moving your entire speed each turn.;
#tr;39-40;You regain 2d10 hit points.;
#tr;41-42;Each creature within 30 feet of you is subjected to the gleaming outline tech power for 1 minute.;
#tr;43-44;For the next minute, you can teleport up to 20 feet as a bonus action on each of your turns.;
#tr;45-46;You are blinded and deafened for 1 minute.;
#tr;47-48;You have disadvantage on the first ability check, attack roll, or saving throw you make each turn for 1 minute.;
#tr;49-50;You can’t speak for the next minute. Whenever you try, pink bubbles float out of your mouth.;
#tr;51-52;A shimmering energy barrier grants you a +2 bonus to AC for 1 minute.;
#tr;53-54;You are immune to being intoxicated by alcohol for the next 5d6 days.;
#tr;55-56;Your hair falls out but grows back within 24 hours. If you don’t have hair, you instead grow it for 24 hours.;
#tr;57-58;For 1 minute, any flammable object not worn or carried you touch bursts into flame.;
#tr;59-60;You regain tech points equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of one).;
#tr;61-62;For the next minute, you shout whenever you speak.;
#tr;63-64;You cast smoke cloud centered on yourself without expending tech points.;
#tr;65-66;Up to three creatures you choose within 30 feet of you take 4d10 lightning damage.;
#tr;67-68;You are frightened by the nearest creature until the end of your next turn.;
#tr;69-70;Each creature within 30 feet of you becomes invisible for 1 minute, or until it attacks or casts a power.;
#tr;71-72;You gain resistance to all damage for the next minute.;
#tr;73-74;A random creature within 60 feet of you becomes poisoned for 1d4 hours.;
#tr;75-76;You emit bright light in a 30-foot radius for 1 minute.;
#tr;77-78;Each creature within 30 feet of you except you gains the benefits of mirror image for 1 minute.;
#tr;79-80;Illusory butterflies and flower petals flutter in the air within 10 feet of you for the next minute.;
#tr;81-82;You can take one additional action immediately.;
#tr;83-84;Each creature within 30 feet of you takes 1d10 necrotic damage and you gain hit points equal to the damage.;
#tr;85-86;You cast mirror image without expending tech points.;
#tr;87-88;You are frozen in carbonite and paralyzed for 1 minute or until you take damage.;
#tr;89-90;You turn invisible and can’t make sound for 1 minute, or until you attack or cast a power.;
#tr;91-92;If you die within the next minute, you immediately come back to life as if by the defibrillate power.;
#tr;93-94;Your size increases by one size category for the next minute.;
#tr;95-96;You and all creatures within 30 feet of you gain vulnerability to energy damage for the next minute.;
#tr;97-98;You are surrounded by faint, ethereal music for the next minute.;
#tr;99-100;You regain half your expended tech points.;
#te;

#ab;Astrotech Engineering
Those engineers who choose the Astrotech Engineering discipline focus on crafting and upgrading their droid companions.
#abf;Bonus Proficiencies;3
When you choose this discipline at 3rd level, you gain proficiency in astrotech’s implements. Additionally, when you engage in crafting with astrotech’s implements, the rate at which you craft doubles.
#abf;Droid Companion;3
Also at 3rd level, you learn to employ all the knowledge you’ve accumulated to create and customize your own personalized droid companion.
Choose your droid, which is detailed at the end of this discipline. Over the course of 8 hours, which can be done during a long rest, you can expend 500 cr worth of materials to finally finish your droid.
If your droid is irreparably destroyed, or you want to interface with a different droid, you can spend an additional 250 credits and 1 hour to change the target of this feature. You may only have one droid companion at a time.
Your droid gains a variety of benefits while it is interfaced with you:
#ls;
#li;The droid obeys your commands as best it can. It acts on your turn, and you determine its actions, decisions, attitudes, and so on. If you are incapacitated or absent, your droid acts on its own.
#li;Your droid’s level equals your engineer level, and for each engineer level you gain after 3rd, your droid companion gains an additional Hit Die and increases its hit points accordingly.
#li;Your droid has the proficiency bonus of a player character of the same level.
#li;Whenever you gain the Ability Score Improvement feature in this class, your droid’s abilities also improve. Your droid can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or it can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, your droid can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature unless its description specifies otherwise.
#li;Your droid can not wear armor, but you can have the armor professionally integrated into its chassis. Over the course of a long rest, you can expend materials equal to half the cost of the armor in order to integrate it into your droid. Your droid must be proficient in armor in order to have it integrated.
#li;Your droid is a valid target of the tracker droid interface tech power.
#le;
Additionally, you can modify your droid. Your droid companion has 4 modification slots, and it gains more at higher levels, as shown in the Modification Slots column of the engineer table. For each modification installed, your tech point maximum is reduced by 1. Over the course of a long rest, you can replace or remove a number of modifications up to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of one).
#zls;
#zl;engineer_feature;Astrotech Modifications
#zle;
#abf;Potent Integration;3
Lastly at 3rd level, when your droid makes an attack roll, you can use your reaction to expend one use of your Potent Aptitude to give it a boost. Roll the die and add it to both the attack and damage rolls, if the attack hits.
#abf;Coordinated Attack;6
Beginning at 6th level, when you take the Attack action, if your companion can see you, it can use its reaction to make a weapon attack against the same creature.
#abf;Droid Defense;14
At 14th level, while your droid can see you, it has advantage on all saving throws.
#abf;Superior Droid Defense;18
Starting at 18th level, whenever an attacker that your droid can see hits it with an attack, it can use its reaction to halve the attack’s damage against it.

#abf;Generating Your Droid;
Choosing your droid companion is an integral part of being an Astrotech Engineer. The class of droid you choose determines their features. Class I through V droids are all appropriate options, with their statistics listed below.
Once you’ve selected your type of droid class, you assign your droid’s ability scores using standard array (16, 14, 14, 12, 10, 8) as you see fit.

#abf;Droid Features;
All droids share the following features.
#h;Resistances and Vulnerabilities
#ls;
#li;Droid Resistances: Your droid is resistant to necrotic, poison, and psychic damage, and immune to poison and disease.
#li;Droid Vulnerabilities: Your droid is vulnerable to ion damage. Additionally, your droid has disadvantage on saving throws against effects that would deal ion or lightning damage.
#le;
#h;Traits
#ls;
#li;Creature Type: Droid
#li;Armor Integration: Your droid can not wear armor, but you can have the armor professionally integrated into its chassis. Over the course of a long rest, you can expend materials equal to half the cost of the armor in order to have it integrated. This work must be done by someone proficient with astrotech’s implements. Your droid must be proficient in armor in order to have it integrated.
#li;Droid Systems: Your droid does not need to eat or drink.
#le;

#abf;Class I Droid;
Class I droids are programmed for the mathematical, medical, or physical sciences. Subcategories of the first degree are medical droids, biological science droids, physical science droids, and mathematics droids.
As a class I droid, your droid companion has the following features.
#h;Hit Points
#ls;
#li;Hit Dice: 1d8 per class I droid level.
#li;Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your droid’s Constitution modifier.
#li;Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your droid’s Constitution modifier per class I droid level after 1st.
#le;
#h;Proficiencies
#ls;
#li;Armor: Light armor plating.
#li;Weapons: Simple blasters, simple vibroweapons.
#li;Tools: None.
#li;Languages: Class I droids can speak, read, and write Galactic Basic and one language of your choice. They can understand spoken and written Binary, but can not speak it.
#li;Saving Throws: Wisdom, Intelligence.
#li;Skills: Two Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma skills of your choice.
#le;
#h;Features
#ls;
#li;Size: Medium.
#li;Speed: 25 ft.
#le;

#abf;Class II Droid;
Class II droids are programmed for engineering and other technical sciences. They differ from class I droids because they apply the science to real-life situations. Class II droids are rarely equipped with Basic vocabulators, instead communicating through Binary. There are five subcategories of class II droids. Astromech, exploration, environmental, engineering, and maintenance droids are all class II droids.
As a class II droid, your droid companion has the following features.
#h;Hit Points
#ls;
#li;Hit Dice: 1d6 per class II droid level.
#li;Hit Points at 1st Level: 6 + your droid’s Constitution modifier.
#li;Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d6 (or 4) + your droid’s Constitution modifier per class II droid level after 1st.
#le;
#h;Proficiencies
#ls;
#li;Armor: Light armor, medium armor.
#li;Weapons: Simple blasters and simple vibroweapons with the light property.
#li;Tools: Your choice of demolition’s kit, security kit, or slicer’s kit.
#li;Languages: Class II droids can speak, read, and write Binary. They can understand spoken and written Galactic Basic and one language of your choice, but can not speak it.
#li;Saving Throws: Dexterity, Intelligence.
#li;Skills: Two of your choice.
#le;
#h;Features
#ls;
#li;Size: Small.
#li;Speed: 25 ft.
#le;

#abf;Class III Droid;
Class III droids are programmed to interact with humans. They are said to be the most advanced droids ever invented. Protocol, servant, tutor, and child care droids are all class III droids.
As a class III droid, your droid companion has the following features.
#h;Hit Points
#ls;
#li;Hit Dice: 1d8 per class III droid level.
#li;Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your droid’s Constitution modifier.
#li;Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your droid’s Constitution modifier per class III droid level after 1st.
#le;
#h;Proficiencies
#ls;
#li;Armor: Light armor.
#li;Weapons: Simple blasters, simple vibroweapons.
#li;Tools: None.
#li;Languages: Class III droids can speak and understand all registered languages.
#li;Saving Throws: Wisdom, Charisma.
#li;Skills: None.
#le;
#h;Features
#ls;
#li;Size: Medium.
#li;Speed: 25 ft.
#le;

#abf;Class IV Droid;
Class IV droids are programmed for military and security purposes. Such droids tend to perform tasks of violence or combat might be expected. Almost all class IV droids carry weapons. Armed combat droids are among the first droids ever created. Security, gladiator, battle, and assassin droids are all class IV droids.
As a class IV droid, your droid companion has the following features.
#h;Hit Points
#ls;
#li;Hit Dice: 1d8 per class IV droid level.
#li;Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your droid’s Constitution modifier.
#li;Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your droid’s Constitution modifier per class IV droid level after 1st.
#le;
#h;Proficiencies
#ls;
#li;Armor: All armor.
#li;Weapons: All blasters, All vibroweapons.
#li;Tools: None.
#li;Languages: Class IV droids can speak, read, and write Galactic Basic and one language of your choice. They can understand spoken and written Binary, but can not speak it.
#li;Saving Throws: Strength, Dexterity.
#li;Skills: None.
#le;
#h;Features
#ls;
#li;Size: Medium.
#li;Speed: 30 ft.
#le;

#abf;Class V Droid;
Class V droids are programmed for menial and low-skill tasks. Such droids tend to perform basic tasks such as construction, lifting, maintenance, mining, sanitation, and transportation.
As a class V droid, your droid companion has the following features.
#h;Hit Points
#ls;
#li;Hit Dice: 1d8 per class V droid level.
#li;Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your droid’s Constitution modifier.
#li;Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your droid’s Constitution modifier per class V droid level after 1st.
#le;
#h;Proficiencies
#ls;
#li;Armor: Light armor, medium armor.
#li;Weapons: All vibroweapons, simple blasters.
#li;Tools: One set of artisan’s implements.
#li;Languages: Class V droids can speak, read, and write Binary. They can understand spoken and written Galactic Basic and one language of your choice, but can not speak it.
#li;Saving Throws: Strength, Constitution.
#li;Skills: Athletics.
#le;
#h;Features
#ls;
#li;Size: Medium.
#li;Speed: 30 ft.
#le;

#abf;Astrotech Modifications;
If a modification has prerequisites, you must meet them to install it. You can install the modification at the same time that you meet its prerequisites.
#ts;
#th;Name;Prerequisites;Description;
#tr;Advanced Power Core;Level 7, d10 hit die;Your droid’s hit points increase by an amount equal to its level + 1 and its Hit Die becomes a d12.;
#tr;Alarm Protocol;;You install an alarm module in your droid, granting the following benefits: Your droid grants a +5 bonus to initiative to creatures within 5 feet of it and You and your droid can’t be surprised while your droid is conscious.;
#tr;Analysis Protocol;Level 7, Class 1 Droid;Your droid can analyze a target, develop a plan on how to best overcome any potential obstacle, and execute that plan with ruthless efficiency. As a bonus action on your droid’s turn, your droid can analyze a target it can see within 60 feet of it. For the next minute, or until it analyzes another target, it gains the following benefits: When it analyzes a hostile creature, its attack and damage rolls made with weapons with the finesse property or blaster weapons against that target may use its Intelligence modifier instead of Strength or Dexterity and When it analyzes a friendly creature, the target can end your droid’s Analysis Protocol on them (no action required) to add half your droid’s Intelligence modifier (rounded down, minimum of +1) to one attack roll, ability check, or saving throw. Once a friendly creature has benefited from this ability, they can not do so again until they complete a short or long rest.;
#tr;Arm Cannons;;You install dual arm cannons in your droid. The arm cannons have 2 charges. As an action, your droid can use charges to cast the overload tech power, using 1 charge per level. The saving throw is made against your droid’s tech save DC (8 + your droid’s proficiency bonus + your droid’s Intelligence modifier). You can choose this modification multiple times. Each time you do so, the arm cannons gain another charge, to a maximum of 4. The arm cannons regain all charges after a long rest.;
#tr;Back-Up Protocol;Level 7;You install an emergency protocol in your droid, prompting a quick reboot after critical damage is taken. If your droid would be reduced to 0 hit points, it instead is reduced to 1. Once your droid uses this feature, it must finish a short or long rest before it can use it again.;
#tr;Celerity Augment;;You augment your droid to move a little faster. Your droid’s speed increases by 5 feet. You can choose this modification twice.;
#tr;Charisma Chip;Class 3 Droid;You install a charisma chip in your droid. When an ally your droid can see makes an ability check, attack roll, or saving throw, your droid can use its reaction to give them advantage on the roll. It can do so before or after they roll the d20, but before the GM says the roll succeeds or fails. Once your droid uses this ability, it can’t use it again until it finishes a short or long rest.;
#tr;Darkvision Optics;;Your droid has darkvision to a range of 60 feet. If your droid already has darkvision, this modification increases its range by 30 feet.;
#tr;Durability Module;;You enhance your droid’s durability, granting the following benefits: When your droid rolls a Hit Die to regain hit points, the minimum number of hit points your droid can regain from the roll equals twice your droid’s Constitution modifier (minimum of 2) and Your droid’s hit point maximum increases by an amount equal to twice its level when you install this protocol. Whenever your droid gains a level thereafter, its hit point maximum increases by an additional 2 hit points.;
#tr;Emergency Mode;Level 15, Back-Up Protocol;You modify your droid’s back-up protocol. When your droid’s back-up protocol is initiated, it can use its reaction to make one attack roll against a target within range. If the target is the source of the damage that reduced your droid to 0, the attack roll has advantage.;
#tr;Energy Shield;;You install an energy shield in your droid, which has 1 charge. As an action, your droid can use 1 charge to cast the energy shield tech power. You can choose this modification multiple times. Each time you do so, the energy shield gains another charge, to a maximum of 3. The energy shield regains all expended charges after a long rest.;
#tr;Expertise Protocol;Level 5;You install a protocol in your droid that grants it expertise in a tool or skill in which it is proficient.;
#tr;False Combustion;Class 2 Droid;As a reaction in response to taking damage, your droid can feign an explosion. For 1 minute, it appears to be destroyed to all outward inspection. A creature can use its action to inspect your droid and make an Intelligence (Investigation) check (DC = 8 + your droid’s proficiency bonus + your droid’s Intelligence modifier). If it succeeds, it becomes aware that your droid still functions.;
#tr;Fighting Style Protocol;;Your droid adopts a particular style of fighting as its specialty. Choose one of the fighting style options, detailed in chapter 6. Your droid can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if it later gets to choose again.;
#tr;Flamethrower;;You install a flamethrower in your droid. The flamethrower has 1 charge. As an action, your droid can cast the jet of flame tech power, though it does not scale with higher levels, or use 1 charge to cast the flame sweep tech power at 1st level. The saving throw is made against your droid’s tech save DC (8 + your droid’s proficiency bonus + your droid’s Intelligence modifier). You can choose this modification multiple times. Each time you do so, the flamethrower gains another charge, to a maximum of 3. If the flamethrower has multiple charges, you can use multiple charges to cast flame sweep at a higher level, 1 point per charge. The flamethrower regains all expended charges after a long rest.;
#tr;Four-Armed Combatant;Class 4 Droid;You install two additional arms to improve your droid’s combat capabilities, granting it four arms which it can use independently of one another. Your droid can only gain the benefit of items held by two of its arms at any given time, and once per round your droid can switch which arms it is benefiting from (no action required). While your droid has at least 3 arms free, it has a climbing speed equal to its walking speed.;
#tr;Heavy Plating;Medium Armor proficiency;Your droid gains proficiency in heavy armor. If your droid is already proficient in heavy armor, instead critical hits are treated as normal hits against it.;
#tr;Light Plating;;Your droid gains proficiency in light armor. If your droid is already proficient in light armor, instead your droid’s speed increases by 5 feet while light armor is integrated.;
#tr;Martial Protocol;Level  7, Class 4 Droid;Your droid has martial training that allows it to perform special combat maneuvers. It gains the following benefits: It learns two maneuvers of your choice from among those available to the fighter class. If a maneuver it uses requires its target to make a saving throw to resist the maneuver’s effects, the saving throw DC equals 8 + your droid’s proficiency bonus + your droid’s Strength or Dexterity modifier (your choice) and Your droid has two superiority dice, which are d4s. These dice are used to fuel its maneuvers. A superiority die is expended when your droid uses it. It regain all of its expended superiority dice when you finish a short or long rest.;
#tr;Medium Plating;Light Armor proficiency;Your droid gains proficiency in medium armor. If your droid is already proficient in medium armor, the maximum Dexterity bonus your droid can add to AC increases to 3 from 2 while medium armor is integrated.;
#tr;Memory Protocol;Class 1 Droid; Your droid can recall anything it has read in the past month that it understood. This includes but is not limited to books, maps, signs, and lists.;
#tr;Observant Protocol;Level 7, Alarm Protocol;You modify the alarm module in your droid, granting the following benefits: If your droid can see a creature’s mouth while it is speaking a language it understands, your droid can interpret what it’s saying by reading its lips and Your droid is considered to have advantage when determining its passive Wisdom (Perception) and passive Intelligence (Investigation) scores.;
#tr;Performance Protocol;Level 7, Class 3 Droid;You modify your droid’s charisma chip, granting the following benefits: Your droid has advantage on Charisma (Performance) checks and Your droid can also use its bonus action to motivate an ally within 30 feet of it. Until the start of your droid’s next turn, the ally can add the droid’s Charisma modifier (minimum of +1) to the first attack roll, ability check, or saving throw they make. Your droid can use this feature a number of time equal to its Charisma modifier, and it regains all expended uses after it completes a long rest.;
#tr;Powerful Droid;Class 5 Droid;Your droid’s carrying capacity and the weight it can push, drag, or lift doubles. If it would already double, it instead triples.;
#tr;Powerful Grip;Level 7, Class 5 Droid; When your droid hits a creature with a melee weapon attack on its turn and has a free hand, it can use a bonus action to attempt to grapple the target. If it does so, and the grapple succeeds, your droid can make one additional attack against the target (no action required).;
#tr;Premium Power Core;d6 hit die;Your droid’s hit points increase by an amount equal to its level + 1 and its Hit Die becomes a d8.;
#tr;Proficiency Protocol;;You install a protocol in your droid that grants it proficiency in a tool or skill. Your droid gains proficiency in a tool or skill of your choice. You can choose this modification multiple times.;
#tr;Prototype Power Core;d8 hit die;Your droid’s hit points increase by an amount equal to its level + 1 and its Hit Die becomes a d10.;
#tr;Repulsor Coil;Level 7, Class 2 Droid;You install repulsor coils in your droid’s legs. Your droid gains a flying speed equal to its walking speed.;
#tr;Sensor Augmentation;;You augment your droid with an advanced sensor, granting the following benefits: Your droid has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) and Intelligence (Investigation) checks made to detect the presence of secret doors and Your droid has advantage on saving throws made to avoid or resist traps and Your droid has resistance to the damage dealt by traps and Your droid can search for traps while traveling at a normal pace, instead of only at a slow pace.;
#tr;Stun Ray;;You install a stun ray in your droid. The stun ray has 1 charge. As an action, your droid can use 1 charge to cast the hold droid or paralyze humanoid tech power. The saving throw is made against your droid’s tech save DC (8 + your droid’s proficiency bonus + your droid’s Intelligence modifier). You can choose this modification multiple times. Each time you do so, the stun ray gains another charge, to a maximum of 3. The stun ray regains all expended charges after a long rest.;
#tr;Techcasting Protocol;;Your droid learns one at-will tech power and one 1st-level tech power, which it can cast at its lowest level once per long rest. Your droid’s techcasting ability is Intelligence. It does not require use of a wristpad for these powers. At-will powers chosen in this way do not scale with higher levels.;
#tr;Toughness Module;Level 11, Durability Module;You modify the durability module in your droid, granting the following benefit: Your droid becomes proficient in Constitution saving throws. If it is already proficient, it becomes proficient in another saving throw of your choice and Whenever your droid takes the Dodge action in combat, it can spend one Hit Die to heal itself. Roll the die, add its Constitution modifier, and it regains a number of hit points equal to the total (minimum of one).;
#tr;Truesight Optics;Level 11, Darkvision Optics;Your droid can see through illusions and detect invisibility within 30 feet, as with truesight.;
#te;

##;Fighter
#h;Fighter
A Trandoshan runs frantically across rooftops, constantly looking over his shoulder. As he prepares to leap a gap, a blaster bolt hits him in the back and renders him unconscious. His blurry vision barely makes out the figure of a masked woman who casually approaches, ready to collect her bounty.
With his muscular arms held wide, a grizzled-looking Wookiee grins to his bloodthirsty crowd. He turns back to his arena opponent just in time to see the Besalisk take a swing. He ducks, punching the four-armed fighter in the gut. Two wild haymakers later, and he stands alone as the gladiatorial champion.
Taking a deep breath, a Republic soldier looks out onto the war zone waging across the frozen surface of Ilum. He grips his blaster rifle tightly then, with a nod to the dozen squad-mates beside him, he charges onto the battlefield.
Fighters combine discipline with martial skills to become the best pure warriors in the galaxy. Fighters can be stalwart defenders of those in need, cruel marauders, or brave advent-urers. They fight for glory, honor, to right wrongs, to gain power, to acquire wealth, or simple for the thrill of battle.
#h;All in a Day's Work
Many fighters see adventures, raids on enemy strongholds, and dangerous missions as their jobs. Some want to defend those who can’t defend themselves while others seek to use their muscle to carve their own place of importance in the galaxy. Fighters can take the form of guards, champions, bounty hunters, enforcers, mercenaries, freedom fighters, or simply armed explorers.
#h;Code Red
Most fighters come to the profession after receiving at least some amount of formal training from a military organization. Some attend formal academies; others are self-taught and well tested. A fighter may have taken up his weapon to escape a mundane life while another may be following a proud family tradition. Whatever their origins, most fighters share an unshakeable loyalty. Fighters follow orders with little hesitation, as failure can often mean death.
#h;CREATING AN FIGHTER
While creating your fighter character, consider where your loyalties lie. You could be part of a formal military, one of countless troopers fighting for your enterprise. Perhaps you are a gun-for-hire, traveling the galaxy in search of your next gig. What weapons do you prefer and specialize in? Who or what do you fight for? Do you have aspirations of a life beyond the battlefield, or have you been at war so long you know of nothing else? 
#h;QUICK BUILD
You can make a fighter quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Strength or Dexterity your highest ability modifier, depending on whether you want to focus on melee combat or on ranged weapons (or finesse weapons). Your next-highest score should be Constitution. Second, choose the soldier background. 
#h;The Fighter
#ts;
#th;Level;Proficiency Bonus;Features;Martial Superiority;Superiority Dice;Maneuvers Known;
#tr;1;+2;Fighting Style, Second Wind;-;-;-;
#tr;2;+2;Action Surge(one use), Combat Superiority;d4;2;2;
#tr;3;+2;Fighting Mastery, Fighter Speciality;d4;2;2;
#tr;4;+2;Ability Score Improvement;d4;2;2;
#tr;5;+3;Extra Attack;d6;2;2;
#tr;6;+3;Ability Score Improvement;d6;2;2;
#tr;7;+3;Fighter Speciality feature;d6;3;3;
#tr;8;+3;Ability Score Improvement;d6;3;3;
#tr;9;+4;Indomitable(one use);d8;3;3;
#tr;10;+4;Fighter Speciality;d8;3;3;
#tr;11;+4;Greater Extra Attack;d8;4;4;
#tr;12;+4;Ability Score Improvement;d8;4;4;
#tr;13;+5;Indomitable(two uses);d10;4;4;
#tr;14;+5;Ability Score Improvement;d10;4;4;
#tr;15;+5;Fighter Speciality feature;d10;5;5;
#tr;16;+5;Ability Score Improvement;d10;5;5;
#tr;17;+6;Action Surge(two uses), Indomitable(three uses);d12;5;5;
#tr;18;+6;Fighter Speciality feature;d12;5;5;
#tr;19;+6;Ability Score Improvement;d12;5;5;
#tr;20;+6;Master of Combat;d12;5;5;
#te;
#h;Class Features
As an fighter, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d10 per fighter level.
Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution modifier.
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per fighter level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armor: all armor.
Weapons: all blasters, all vibroweapons.
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Strength, Constitution
Skills: Choose two from Acrobatics, Animal Handling, Athletics, Insight, Intimidation, Lore, Perception, and Survival
Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
#ls;
#li;(a) mesh armor or (b) combat suit, blaster rifle, and two power cells
#li;(a) a martial vibroweapon and a light or medium physical shield or (b) two martial vibroweapons
#li;(a) a hold-out and a power cell or (b) two vibrodaggers
#li;(a) a dungeoneer’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack
#le;
VARIANT: STARTING WEALTH
In lieu of the equipment granted by your class and background, you can elect to purchase your starting gear. If you do so, you receive no equipment from your class and background, and instead roll for your starting wealth using 8d4 x 100 cr.
#fe;Fighting Style;1
Beginning at 1st level, you adopt a particular style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the fighting style options, detailed in Chapter 6. You can’t take a fighting style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.
#fe;Second Wind;1
Also at 1st level, you have a limited well of stamina that you can draw on to protect yourself from harm. On your turn, you can use a bonus action to regain hit points equal to 1d10 + your fighter level.
Once you’ve used this feature, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again.
#fe;Action Surge;2
Starting at 2nd level, you can push yourself beyond your normal limits for a moment. On your turn, you can take one additional action on top of your regular action and a possible bonus action.
Once you’ve used this feature, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again. Starting at 17th level, you can use it twice before a rest, but only once on the same turn.
#fe;Combat Superiority;2
Also at 2nd level, you learn maneuvers that are fueled by special dice called superiority dice.
#h;Maneuvers
You learn two maneuvers of your choice, which are detailed under "Maneuvers" below, and you earn more at higher levels, as shown in the Maneuvers Known column of the fighter table. Many maneuvers enhance an attack in some way. You can use only one maneuver per attack, and you may only use each maneuver once per turn.
Each time you learn new maneuvers, you can also replace one maneuver you know with a different one.
#h;Superiority Dice
You have two superiority dice, which are d4s, and you earn more at higher levels, as shown in the Superiority Dice column of the fighter table. A superiority die is expended when you use it. You regain all of your expended superiority dice when you finish a short or long rest.
#h;Saving Throws
Some of your maneuvers require your target to make a saving throw to resist the maneuver’s effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows:
#bp;Maneuver save DC
8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength or Dexterity modifier (your choice)
#fe;Maneuvers;2
The maneuvers are presented in alphabetical order.
#ts;
#th;Name;Description;
#tr;Commander’s Strike;When you take the Attack action on your turn, you can forgo one of your attacks and use a bonus action to direct one of your companions to strike. When you do so, choose a friendly creature who can see or hear you and expend one superiority die. That creature can immediately use its reaction to make one weapon attack, adding the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll.;
#tr;Disarming Attack;When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to disarm the target, forcing it to drop one item of your choice that it’s holding. You add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll, and the target must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, it drops the object you choose. The object lands at its feet.;
#tr;Distracting Strike;When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to distract the creature, giving your allies an opening. You add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll. The next attack roll against the target by an attacker other than you has advantage if the attack is made before the start of your next turn.;
#tr;Evasive Footwork;When you move, you can expend one superiority die, rolling the die and adding the number rolled to your AC until you stop moving.;
#tr;Feinting Attack;You can expend one superiority die and use a bonus action on your turn to feint, choosing one creature within 5 feet of you as your target. You have advantage on your next attack roll against that creature. If that attack hits, add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll.;
#tr;Goading Attack;When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to goad the target into attacking you. You add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll, and the target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target has disadvantage on all attack rolls against targets other than you until the end of your next turn.;
#tr;Lunging Attack;When you make a melee weapon attack on your turn, you can expend one superiority die to increase your reach for that attack by 5 feet. If you hit, you add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll.;
#tr;Maneuvering Attack;When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to maneuver one of your comrades into a more advantageous position. You add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll, and you choose a friendly creature who can see or hear you. That creature can use its reaction to move up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks from the target of your attack.;
#tr;Menacing Attack;When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to frighten the target. You add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll, and the target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, it is frightened of you until the end of your next turn.;
#tr;Parry;When another creature damages you with a melee attack, you can use your reaction and expend one superiority die to reduce the damage by the number you roll on your superiority die + your Dexterity modifier.;
#tr;Precision Attack;When you make a weapon attack roll against a creature, you can expend one superiority die to add it to the roll. You can use this maneuver before or after making the attack roll, but before any effects of the attack are applied.;
#tr;Pushing Attack;When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to drive the target back. You add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll, and if the target is Large or smaller, it must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, you push the target up to 15 feet away from you.;
#tr;Rally;On your turn, you can use a bonus action and expend one superiority die to bolster the resolve of one of your companions. When you do so, choose a friendly creature who can see or hear you. That creature gains temporary hit points equal to the superiority die roll + your Charisma modifier.;
#tr;Riposte;When a creature misses you with a melee attack, you can use your reaction and expend one superiority die to make a melee weapon attack against the creature. If you hit, you add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll.;
#tr;Sweeping Attack;When you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to damage another creature with the same attack. Choose another creature within 5 feet of the original target and within your reach. If the original attack roll would hit the second creature, it takes damage equal to the number you roll on your superiority die. The damage is of the same type dealt by the original attack.;
#tr;Trip Attack;When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to knock the target down. You add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll, and if the target is Large or smaller, it must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, you knock the target prone.;
#te;
#fe;Fighter Mastery;3
At 3rd level, you’ve mastered a particular style of fighting. Choose one of the Fighting Mastery options, detailed in Chapter 6. You can’t take a Fighting Mastery option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.
#fe;Fighter Speciality;3
Also at 3rd level, you choose a specialty that you strive to emulate in your combat styles and techniques, which is detailed at the end of the class description. The archetype you choose grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 10th, 15th, and 18th level.
#zls;
#zl;fighter_ability;Assault Specialist
#zl;fighter_ability;Heavy Weapons Specialist
#zl;fighter_ability;Shield Specialist
#zl;fighter_ability;Tactical Specialist
#zle;
#fe;Ability Score Improvement;
When you reach 4th level, and again at 6th, 8th, 12th, 14th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see Chapter 6 for a list of feats).
#fe;Extra Attack;5
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
#fe;Indomitable;9
Beginning at 9th level, you can reroll a saving throw that you fail. If you do so, you must use the new roll, and you can’t use this feature again until you finish a long rest.
You can use this feature twice between long rests starting at 13th level and three times between long rests starting at 17th level.
#fe;Greater Extra Attack;11
Beginning at 11th level, you can attack three times, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
Additionally, when you use a bonus action to engage in Double- or Two-Weapon Fighting, you can make two attacks, instead of one.
#fe;Master of Combat;20
At 20th level, you are the master of combat. Your Strength or Dexterity score increases by 2, and your Constitution score increases by 2. Your maximum for those scores increases by 2.
Additionally, you can attack four times, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.

#abh;Fighter Specialties
#ab;Assault Specialist
Those fighters who choose to become Assault Specialists focus on the development of raw physical power honed to deadly perfection. Assault Specialists combine rigorous training with physical excellence to deal devastating blows.
#abf;Brute Force;3
When you choose this specialty at 3rd level, once per turn, when you deal damage with a weapon, you can deal an additional 1d4 damage of the same type as the weapon’s damage. If this damage would affect multiple creatures, you can only apply this damage bonus to one of them.
This damage increases to 1d6 at 5th level, 1d8 at 9th level, 1d10 and 13th level, and 1d12 at 17th level.
#abf;Remarkable Athlete;3
Also at 3rd level, you can add half your proficiency bonus (rounded up) to any Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution check you make that doesn’t already use your proficiency bonus.
#abf;Brutish Durability;7
Beginning at 7th level, once per round, roll 1d6 and add the die to your saving throw total. If applying this bonus to a death saving throw increases the total to 20 or higher, you gain the benefits of rolling a 20 on the d20. You can choose to use this feature before or after you make a saving throw, but you must decide before the GM says whether the save succeeds or fails.
#abf;Additional Fighting Style;10
At 10th level, you can choose a second fighting style option.
#zls;
#zl;fighter_feature;fightingstyle1;Fighting Styles
#zle;
#abf;Devastating Critical;15
Starting at 15th level, when you score a critical hit with a weapon attack, you gain a bonus to that weapon’s damage roll equal to your fighter level.
#abf;Survivor;18
At 18th level, you attain the pinnacle of resilience in battle. At the start of each of your turns, you regain hit points equal to 5 + your Constitution modifier if you have no more than half your hit points left. You don’t gain this benefit if you have 0 hit points.

#ab;Heavy Weapons Specialist
Some manned instruments of war require their user to have superior physical prowess to overcome their weight and encumbrance. Those fighters who choose to become Heavy Weapons Specialists use their powerful bodies, and powerful armaments, to overwhelm their foes.
#abf;Rock Steady;3
When you choose this specialty at 3rd level, you have learned to use the heft of your weapon to root yourself in place. At the end of each of your turns, if you move less than half your speed while wielding a weapon with the heavy or strength properties, you have advantage on saving throws to avoid being restrained, moved, or knocked prone. This advantage lasts until the end of your next turn.
#abf;My Little Friend Says Hello There;3
Also at 3rd level, you know how to use the sheer size of your weapon to strike fear in those around you. You can add your Strength modifier to any Charisma (Intimidation) check you make while wielding a weapon with the heavy or strength properties that doesn’t already include that modifier.
#abf;Maximum Output;7
Beginning at 7th level, when you take the Attack action while wielding a weapon with the heavy or strength properties, you can forgo one or more attacks. If you do so, you deal additional damage the first time you hit with an attack roll before the end of your next turn. For each attack you forgo in this fashion, you deal extra damage equal to 1d12 + half your fighter level (rounded down). If you miss with the first attack roll you make before the end of your next turn, you instead deal normal weapon damage.
#abf;Straight Through;10
At 10th level, when you score a critical hit on your turn while wielding a weapon with the heavy or strength properties, you can make one weapon attack against a creature within 5 feet of the target using your reaction.
#abf;Overwhelm;15
Starting at 15th level, when you use your Second Wind while wielding a weapon with the heavy or strength properties, if you hit with the first attack roll you make before the end of your next turn, you treat the hit as a critical hit. If you miss with the first attack roll you make before the end of your next turn, you instead treat the miss as a hit.
#abf;Pure Performance;18
At 18th level, attack rolls you make while wielding a weapon with the heavy or strength properties can’t suffer from disadvantage.

#ab;Shield Specialist
Those fighters who choose to become Shield Specialists train to bolster those around them. They can inspire their allies with renewed vigor, lifting them to new heights, while simultaneously protecting them from harm.
#abf;Techcasting;3
When you choose this specialty at 3rd level, you have derived powers from schematics with the aid of your wristpad. See chapter 10 for the general rules of techcasting and chapter 12 for the tech powers list.
#bp;SHIELD SPECIALIST TECHCASTING
#ts;
#th;Level;Tech Powers Known;Tech Points;Max Power Level;
#tr;3rd;3;2;1st;
#tr;4th;4;2;1st;
#tr;5th;5;3;1st;
#tr;6th;6;3;1st;
#tr;7th;7;4;2nd;
#tr;8th;8;4;2nd;
#tr;9th;9;5;2nd;
#tr;10th;10;5;2nd;
#tr;11th;11;6;2nd;
#tr;12th;12;6;2nd;
#tr;13th;13;7;3rd;
#tr;14th;14;7;3rd;
#tr;15th;15;8;3rd;
#tr;16th;16;8;3rd;
#tr;17th;17;9;4th;
#tr;18th;18;9;4th;
#tr;19th;19;10;4th;
#tr;20th;20;10;4th;
#te;
#h;Tech Powers Known
You learn 3 tech powers of your choice, and you learn more at higher levels, as shown in the Tech Powers Known column of the Shield Specialist Techcasting table. You may not learn a tech power of a level higher than your Max Power Level.
#h;Tech Points
You have a number of tech points equal to half your fighter level (rounded up), as shown in the Tech Points column of the Shield Specialist Techcasting table, + your Intelligence modifier. You use these tech points to cast tech powers. You regain all expended tech points when you finish a short or long rest.
#h;Max Power Level
Many tech powers can be overcharged, consuming more tech points to create a greater effect. You can overcharge these powers to a maximum level, which increases at higher levels, as shown in the Max Power Level column of the Shield Specialist Techcasting table.
You may only cast tech powers at 4th-level once. You regain the ability to do so after a long rest.
#h;Techcasting Ability
Intelligence is your techcasting ability for your tech powers. You use your Intelligence whenever a power refers to your techcasting ability. Additionally, you use your Intelligence modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a tech power you cast and when making an attack roll with one.
#bp;Tech Save DC
8 + your prociency bonus + your Intelligence modifier
#bp;Tech Attack Modifier
your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier
#h;Techcasting Focus
You use a wristpad (found in chapter 5) as a techcasting focus for your tech powers.
#abf;Stay in Formation;3
Also at 3rd level, you can take the Guard action as a bonus action on your turn.
#abf;Rallying Cry;7
Beginning at 7th level, when you use your Second Wind feature, you can choose up to three creatures within 60 feet of you that are allied with you. Each one regains hit points equal to your fighter level, provided that the creature can see or hear you.
#abf;Inspiring Surge;10
At 10th level, when you use your Action Surge feature, you can choose one creature within 60 feet of you that is allied with you. That creature can make one melee or ranged weapon attack with its reaction, provided that it can see or hear you.
#abf;Bulwark;15
Starting at 15th level, you can extend the benefit of your Indomitable feature to an ally. When you decide to use Indomitable to reroll an Intelligence, a Wisdom, or a Charisma saving throw and you aren’t incapacitated, you can choose one ally within 60 feet of you that also failed its saving throw against the same effect. If that creature can see or hear you, it can reroll its saving throw and must use the new roll.
#abf;Greater Inspiring Surge;18
At 18th level, you can choose two allies within 60 feet of you, rather than one, when you using your Inspiring Surge feature.

#ab;Tactical Specialist
Those fighters who choose to become Tactical Specialists employ martial techniques passed down through generations. To a Tactical Specialist, combat is an academic field, sometimes including subjects beyond battle such as armstech or armormech. Not every fighter absorbs the lessons of history, theory, and artistry that are reflected in the Tactical Specialty, but those who do are well-rounded fighters of great skill and knowledge.
#abf;Bonus Proficiencies;3
You gain proficiency with one type of artisan’s implements of your choice.
#abf;Improved Combat Superiority;3
When you choose this specialty at 3rd level, your tactical skill in combat improves, granting bonuses to your Combat Superiority.
#h;Improved Maneuvers
You know four maneuvers of your choice, instead of two, and you earn more at higher levels, as shown in the Maneuvers Known column of the Tactical Specialist Combat Superiority table.
#h;Improved Superiority Dice
You have four superiority dice, instead of two, and you earn more at higher levels, as shown in the Superiority Dice column of the Tactical Specialist Combat Superiority table.
#abf;Signature Maneuver;3
Also at 3rd level, you choose a maneuver you know from this class as your signature maneuver. Whenever you use that maneuver, you can use it without expending a Superiority Dice. You may only use this feature once per round.
#abf;Know Your Enemy;7
Beginning at 7th level, if you spend at least 1 minute observing or interacting with another creature outside combat, you can learn certain information about its capabilities compared to your own. The GM tells you if the creature is your equal, superior, or inferior in regard to two of the following characteristics of your choice:
#ls;
#li;Strength Score
#li;Dexterity Score
#li;Constitution Score
#li;Armor Class
#li;Current Hit Points
#li;Total class levels (if any)
#li;Fighter class levels (if any)
#le;
#abf;Greater Signature Maneuver;10
At 10th level, you can choose a second signature maneuver.
#abf;Relentless;15
Starting at 15th level, when you roll initiative and have no Superiority Dice remaining, you regain 1 Superiority Die.
#abf;Maneuver Mastery;18
At 18th level, once per round, when you would roll a Superiority Die, you can instead choose the maximum.
#bp;The Tactical Specialist
#ts;
#th;Level;Superiority Dice;Maneuvers Known;
#tr;3rd;4;4;
#tr;4th;4;4;
#tr;5th;4;4;
#tr;6th;4;4;
#tr;7th;6;6;
#tr;8th;6;6;
#tr;9th;6;6;
#tr;10th;6;6;
#tr;11th;8;8;
#tr;12th;8;8;
#tr;13th;8;8;
#tr;14th;8;8;
#tr;15th;10;10;
#tr;16th;10;10;
#tr;17th;10;10;
#tr;18th;10;10;
#tr;19th;10;10;
#tr;20th;10;10;
#te;
#bp;Fighter Maneuvers
#zls;
#zl;fighter_feature;maneuvers2;Maneuvers
#zle;

##;Guardian
#h;Guardian
A dark-skinned human quickly runs down a corridor, the metal armor under his grey cloak clanking with each step. He rounds the corner into the prison while the lights and power are still out, urging the weakened prisoners to escape. Just then a handful of slavers arrive and ready their blasters. The man draws and ignites a white-bladed lightsaber, ready to die for the strangers behind him.
A sith pureblood, clad head to toe in black and red armor, charges towards a line of soldiers. Shot after shot deflects off his armor until he reaches his prey, where he unleashes his fury in a series of devastating lightsaber sweeps.
A zabrak general dramatically leaps to his soon-to-be overrun squad, landing with a flurry of lightsaber attacks. At the arrival of this powerful Jedi, the attackers fall back.
Guardians are the master of the art of lightsaber combat. They focus on utilizing the everpresent power of the Force to enable devastating attacks, often singlehandedly turning the tide of battle.
#h;Protector Or Predator
An unstoppable agent of the Force, the guardian channels the power flowing through him into his weapons. Their skills with a lightsaber are unrivalled. Subduing their enemies and bolstering their allies, the guardian uses the Force to control what happens around them.
#h;Natural Leaders
The guardian's command of the Force lends them a powerful presence. Whether through fear and intimidation or respect and admiration, the guardian is one of the greatest generals on the battlefield. They are a symbol of power to their followers.
#h;Creating A Guardian
While creating your guardian, consider your attraction to the Force and its most famous practitioners - the Jedi and the Sith. Are you a member of one of the two orders, or do you walk a different path? Are you a soldier tapping into a latent Force-sensitivity? Were you trained in the force from a young age, or did you discover it as an adult? How do you treat those weaker than you? What was your family like? Do you see the Force as light and dark, or an impartial river of gray?
#h;Quick Build
You can make a guardian quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Strength your highest ability score, followed by Constitution. Second, choose the Jedi or Sith background.
#h;The Guardian
#ts;
#th;Level;Proficiency Bonus;Features;Force Powers Known;Force Points;Max Power Level;
#tr;1;+2;Forcecasting, Channel the Force;4;2;1;
#tr;2;+2;Force-Empowered Strikes, Guardian Aura;5;4;1;
#tr;3;+2;Guardian Focus;2;6;6;
#tr;4;+2;Ability Score Improvement;7;8;1;
#tr;5;+3;Extra Attack;9;10;2;
#tr;6;+3;Force Purity;10;12;2;
#tr;7;+3;Guardian Focus;11;14;2;
#tr;8;+3;Ability Score Improvement;12;16;2;
#tr;9;+4;-;14;18;3;
#tr;10;+4;Guardian Aura;15;20;3;
#tr;11;+4;Improved Force-Empowered Strikes;16;22;3;
#tr;12;+4;Ability Score Improvement;17;24;3;
#tr;13;+5;-;19;26;4;
#tr;14;+5;Cleansing Touch;20;28;4;
#tr;15;+5;Guardian Focus;21;30;4;
#tr;16;+5;Ability Score Improvement;22;32;4;
#tr;17;+6;-;24;34;5;
#tr;18;+6;Guardian Aura;25;36;5;
#tr;19;+6;Ability Score Improvement;26;38;5;
#tr;20;+6;Guardian Focus;27;40;5;
#te;
#h;Class Features
As an guardian, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d10 per guardian level.
Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution modifier.
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per guardian level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armor: Light Armor, Medium Armor
Weapons: Simple Vibroweapons, Martial Vibroweapons, Simple Lightsabers, Martial Lightsabers
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Constitution, Charisma
Skills: Choose two from Acrobatics, Athletics, Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Lore, Perception, Persuasion, and Piloting
Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
#ls;
#li;(a) a martial lightweapon or vibroweapon and a light or medium shield or (b) two martial lightweaponss or vibroweapons
#li;(a) combat suit and light shield or (b) light battle armor
#li;(a) a priest's pack or (b) an explorer's pack
#le;
VARIANT: STARTING WEALTH
In lieu of the equipment granted by your class and background, you can elect to purchase your starting gear. If you do so, you receive no equipment from your class and background, and instead roll for your starting wealth using 1000 cr + (5d4 x 100) cr.
#fe;Forcecasting;1
In your meditations on the force, you have learned powers, fragments of knowledge that imbue you with an abiding force ability. See chapter 10 for the general rules of forcecasting and chapter 11 for the force powers list.
#h;Force Powers Known
You learn 4 force powers of your choice, and you learn more at higher levels, as shown in the Force Powers Known column of the Guardian class table. You may not learn a force power of a level higher than your Max Power Level, and you may learn a force power at the same time you learn its prerequisite.
#h;Force Points
You have a number of force points equal to your guardian level x 2, and you earn more at higher levels, as shown in the Force Points column of the Guardian class table. You use these force points to cast force powers. You regain all expended force points when you finish a long rest.
#h;Max Power Level
Many force powers can be overpowered, consuming more force points to create a greater effect. You can overpower these abilities to a maximum level, which increases at higher levels, as shown in the Max Power Level column of the Guardian class table.
You may only cast force powers at 5th-level once. You regain the ability to do so after a short or long rest.
#h;Forcecasting Ability
Your forcecasting ability varies based on the alignment of the powers you cast. You use your Wisdom for light side powers, Charisma for dark side powers, and Wisdom or Charisma for universal powers (your choice). You use this ability score modifier whenever a power refers to your forcecasting ability. In addition, you use this ability score modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a force power you cast and when making an attack roll with one.
#bp;Force save DC
8 + your proficiency bonus +your forcecasting ability modifier
#bp;Force attack modifier
your proficiency bonus +your forcecasting ability modifier
#fe;Channel the Force;1
You know how to channel the Force to create a unique effect. You start with your choice from two such effects: Cause Harm and Lend Aid. At 3rd level, your Guardian Focus grants you an additional effect. When you use your Channel the Force, you choose which effect to create.
Some Channel the Force effects require saving throws. When you use such an effect from this class, the DC equals your force save DC.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, minimum of once). You regain expended uses when you finish a short or long rest.
#h;Cause Harm
As an action, you can expend a use of your Channel the Force to sap the life from a hostile creature you can see within 30 feet. That creature must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes necrotic damage equal to your guardian level + your Charisma modifier, or half as much on a successful one.
#h;Lend Aid
As a bonus action, you can expend a use of your Channel the Force and touch a creature within 5 feet of you. That creature regains hit points equal to your guardian level + your Wisdom modifier. Alternatively, if the creature is poisoned or diseased, you neutralize the poison or disease. If more than one poison or disease aflicts the target, you neutralize one poison or disease that you know is present, or you neutralize one at random.
#fe;Force-Empowered Strikes;2
Starting at 2nd level, when you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack, you can expend force points to deal additional damage to the target. The extra damage is 2d8 for a 1st-level force slot, plus 1d8 for each slot level higher than 1st, to a maximum of 5d8. The damage is the same type as the weapon's damage.
You can't use a higher level force slot than your Max Power Level.
#fe;Guardian Aura;2
At the 2nd level, you gain an aura of your choice, as described at the end of the class description. When you reach 10th level you can select a second aura.
The auras are presented in alphabetical order. If multiple guardians grant the same aura, affected creatures can only benefit from it once. You must be conscious to grant the benefits of your auras.
#ts;
#th;Aura Name;Description;
#tr;Aura of Conquest;Whenever a creature who is frightened of you starts its turn within 5 feet of you, its speed is reduced to 0 and that creature takes psychic damage equal to half your guardian level. At 10th level, the range of this aura increases to 15 feet, and at 18th level, the range of this aura increases to 30 feet.;
#tr;Aura of Conviction;You and friendly creatures within 5 feet of you can not be frightened while you are conscious.  At 10th level, the range of this aura increases to 15 feet, and at 18th level, the range of this aura increases to 30 feet.
#tr;Aura of Devotion;You and friendly creatures within 5 feet of you can not be charmed while you are conscious. At 10th level, the range of this aura increases to 15 feet, and at 18th level, the range of this aura increases to 30 feet.;
#tr;Aura of Hatred;You and friendly creatures within 5 feet of you gain a bonus to the first melee weapon damage rolls you make each round equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of +1). You must be conscious to grant this bonus.  At 10th level, the range of this aura increases to 15 feet, and at 18th level, the range of this aura increases to 30 feet.;
#tr;Aura of Presence;Whenever you or a friendly creature within 5 feet of you must make a saving throw, the creature gains a bonus to the saving throw equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of +1). You must be conscious to grant this bonus.  At 10th level, the range of this aura increases to 15 feet, and at 18th level, the range of this aura increases to 30 feet.;
#tr;Aura of Protection;Whenever a creature within 5 feet of you takes damage, you can use your reaction to take that damage instead of that creature taking it. This feature doesn't transfer any other effects that might accompany the damage, and this damage ca not be reduced in any way. At 10th level, the range of this aura increases to 15 feet, and at 18th level, the range of this aura increases to 30 feet.;
#tr;Aura of Vigor;Whenever a friendly creature starts its turn within 5 feet of you, that creature gains temporary hit points equal to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, minimum of one).  At 10th level, the range of this aura increases to 15 feet, and at 18th level, the range of this aura increases to 30 feet.;
#tr;Aura of Warding;You and friendly creatures within 5 feet of you have resistance to damage from force powers.  At 10th level, the range of this aura increases to 15 feet, and at 18th level, the range of this aura increases to 30 feet.;
#te;
#fe;Guardian Form;3
When you reach 3rd level, you begin to focus your studies on a specific lightsaber form, which is detailed at the end of the class description. Your focus grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 15th, and 20th level.
#zls;
#zl;guardian_ability;formi_shii_cho;Form I: Shii Cho
#zl;guardian_ability;formii_makashi;Form II: Makashi
#zl;guardian_ability;formiii_soresu;Form III: Soresu
#zle;
#fe;Ability Score Improvement;
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can't increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see Chapter 6 for a list of feats).
#fe;Extra Attack;5
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
#fe;Force Purity;6
By 6th level, the Force flowing through you makes you immune to poison and disease.
#fe;Improved Force-Empowered Strikes;11
By 11th level, you are so suffused with righteous might that all your melee weapon strikes carry the power of the Force with them. Whenever you hit a creature with a melee weapon, the creature takes an extra 1d8 damage. If you also use your Force-Empowered Strikes with an attack, you add this damage to the extra damage of your Force-Empowered Strikes. The damage is the same type as the weapon's damage.
#fe;Cleansing Touch;14
Beginning at 14th level, you can use your action and expend a use of your Channel the Force ability to end one force power on yourself or on one willing creature that you touch.
#abh;Guardian Forms
#ab;Form I: Shii-Cho
Form I, also known as Determination Form, uses wild, unpredictable attacks designed to distract and disarm their foes. Those guardians who focus on Shii-Cho Form make seemingly random, yet deliberate, attacks to knock their opponents off-balance.
#abf;Fighting Style;3
When you choose this form as your focus at 3rd level, you adopt a style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one from the Dueling, Equilibrium, or Two-Weapon Fighting Fighting Style options, detailed in Chapter 6. You can't take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.
#zls;
#zl;fighter_feature;fightingstyle1;Fighting Styles
#zle;
#abf;The Way Of The Sarlaac;3
Also at 3rd level, as a bonus action, you can enter a frenetic stance for one minute. While in this stance, the first time you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack on your turn, it has disadvantage on the next melee attack roll it makes against you before the start of your next turn. Additionally, if that creature is within 5 feet of you, it must make a Strength saving throw (DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength or Dexterity modifier). On a failed save, it is pushed back 5 feet, and you can immediately move into the space it just vacated without provoking opportunity attacks.
This effect ends early if you are incapacitated or die. Once you've used this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest.
##h;Channel The Force;3
Lastly at 3rd level, you gain the following Channel the Force option.
#h;Disarming Slash
When you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack, you can expend a use of your Channel the Force (no action required)  to attempt to disarm the target, forcing it to drop one item of your choice that it's holding. The creature must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, it drops the object you choose. If you are within 5 feet of the target, and you have a free hand, you can catch the item. Otherwise, the object lands at its feet.
#abf;Unpredictable Motion;7
Beginning at 7th level, while you are wielding a melee weapon, opportunity attacks against you are made at disadvantage.
#abf;Sarlaac Sweep;15
Starting at 15th level, when a creature moves to within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to make a melee weapon attack against that creature. If the attack hits, you can attempt to damage another creature within 5 feet of the original target and within your reach. If the original attack roll would hit the second creature, it takes damage equal to your Strength or Dexterity modifier (your choice). The damage is of the same type dealt by the original attack.
#abf;Master Of DeterminatioN;20
At 20th level, the erratic fluidity of your movement confounds even the most determined of foes. Your Strength or Dexterity and Wisdom or Charisma scores (your choice) increase by 2. Your maximum for these scores is now 22. Additionally, you can use your action to gain the following benefits for 1 minute:
#ls;
#li;You have resistance to kinetic and energy damage from unenhanced weapons.
#li;Attack rolls made against you can't have advantage.
#li;When more than one creature is within 5 feet of you, you gain a bonus to your Armor Class equal to the number of creatures within 5 feet of you, up to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, minimum of one).
#li;When you use your Sarlaac Sweep feature, you have advantage on the attack roll, and you can apply the bonus damage to every creature within 5 feet of you.
#le;
This effect ends early if you are incapacitated or die. Once you've used this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest.
#ab;Form II: Makashi
Form II, also known as Contention Form, encourages precision and efficiency over power, using jabs, parries and light cuts over slashes, blocks and chops. Those guardians who focus on Makashi Form utilize calculated blade manipulation, intense focus, and expert timing to confuse and trap their opponents.
#abf;Fighting Style;3
When you choose this form as your focus at 3rd level, you adopt a style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one from the Dueling, Equilibrium, or Sentinel Fighting Style options, detailed in Chapter 6. You can't take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.
#zls;
#zl;fighter_feature;fightingstyle1;Fighting Styles
#zle;
#abf;The Way Of The Ysalamiri;3
Also at 3rd level, as a bonus action, you can enter an offensive stance for one minute. While in this stance, you add your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice) to the first melee weapon attack and damage rolls you make each turn.
This effect ends early if you are incapacitated or die. Once you've used this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest.
#abf;Channel The Force;3
Lastly at 3rd level, you gain the following Channel the Force option.
#h;Makashi Riposte
When another creature damages you with a melee attack, you can expend a use of your Channel the Force and use your reaction to attempt to deflect the attack. When you do so, the damage you take from the attack is reduced by 1d10 + your Dexterity modifier + your Guardian level.
If you reduce the damage to 0, you can immediately make a single melee weapon attack against that creature as a part of the reaction.
#abf;Shatterpoint;7
Starting at 7th level, if you spend at least 1 minute observing or interacting with another creature outside combat, you can use your connection to the Force to sense their strengths and weaknesses, and learn certain information about its capabilities compared to your own. The DM tells you if the creature is your equal, superior, or inferior in regard to two of the following characteristics of your choice:
#ls;
#li;Strength score
#li;Dexterity score
#li;Wisdom score
#li;Charisma score
#li;Armor Class
#li;Current hit points
#li;Total class levels (if any)
#li;Total Forcecaster levels (if any)
#le;
#abf;Glancing Blow;15
Starting at 15th level, when an attacker that you can see hits you with an attack, you can use your reaction to halve the attack's damage against you.Starting at 15th level, when an attacker that you can see hits you with an attack, you can use your reaction to halve the attack's damage against you.
#abf;Master Of Contention;20
At 20th level, you are a duelist of the highest caliber.  Your Dexterity and Wisdom or Charisma scores (your choice) increase by 2. Your maximum for those scores is now 22. Additionally, you can use your action to gain the following benefits for 1 minute:
#ls;
#li;You have resistance to kinetic and energy damage, and you ignore resistance to kinetic and energy damage.
#li;All melee attacks have disadvantage against you.
#li;Your melee weapon attacks inflict an additional damage die.
#le;
This effect ends early if you are incapacitated or die. Once you've used this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest.
#ab;Form III: Soresu
Form III, also known as Resilience Form, relies on tight bladework and subtle dodges to provide maximum defensive coverage, minimizing exposure to ranged weaponry. Those guardians who focus on Soresu Form use broad footwork to move around the playing field, making broad, short sweeping motions that protect the body.
#abf;Bonus Proficiencies;3
You gain proficiency in heavy armor.
#abf;Fighting Style;3
When you choose this form as your focus at 3rd level, you adopt a style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one from the Defense, Shielding, or Sentinel Fighting Style options, detailed in Chapter 6. You can't take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.
#zls;
#zl;fighter_feature;fightingstyle1;Fighting Styles
#zle;
#abf;The Way Of The Mynock;3
Also at 3rd level, as a bonus action, you can enter a defensive stance for one minute. As a part of this bonus action, and as a bonus action on each of your turns, you can cast the *saber ward* power. When you do so, you have a number of a number of special reactions equal to your proficiency bonus that you can only use to cast the *saber reflect* force power. You can only take one reaction per turn.
This effect ends early if you are incapacitated or die. Once you've used this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest.
#abf;Channel The Force;3
Lastly at 3rd level, you gain the following Channel the Force option.
#h;Advancing Defender
When you cast the *saber reflect* power, you can expend a use of your Channel the Force to move up to 10 feet as a part of that same reaction. This movement does not provoke opportunity attacks.
#abf;Circle Of Shelter;7
At 7th level, you learn to fend off strikes directed at you, your mount, or other creatures nearby. If you or a creature you can see within 5 feet of you is hit by an attack, you can use your reaction to ward the creature if you're wielding a melee weapon or a shield. Roll 1d8 and add the number rolled to the target's AC against that attack. If the attack still hits, the target has resistance against the attack's damage.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Constitution modifier (a minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.
#abf;Stand Against The Tide;15
Beginning at 15th level, when a hostile creature misses you with a melee attack, you can use your reaction to force that creature to repeat the same attack against another creature (other than itself) of your choice.
#abf;Master Of Resilience;20
At 20th level, your presence on the field of battle is an inspiration to your allies. Your Constitution and Wisdom or Charisma scores (your choice) increase by 2. Your maximum for those scores is now 22. Additionally, you can use your action to gain the following benefits for 1 minute:
#ls;
#li;You have resistance to kinetic and energy damage from unenhanced weapons.
#li;When you use the *saber reflect* force power, you can make a single melee attack on an enemy within 5ft of you as a part of that same reaction.
#li;You have advantage on Dexterity saving throws, as do your allies within 30 feet of you.
#le;
This effect ends early if you are incapacitated or die. Once you've used this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest.

##;Monk
#h;Monk
Her vibrostaff a blur as they deflect an incoming hail of blaster bolts, a human springs over a barricade and throws herself into the massed ranks of pirates on the other side. She whirls among them, knocking their blows aside and sending them reeling, until at last she stands alone.
Taking a deep breath, a zabrak covered in tattoos settles into a battle stance. As the first charging mercenaries reach him, he exhales and a blast of negative energy courses from his hands, engulfing his foes.
Moving with the silence of the night, a black-clad mirialan steps into a shadow beneath an arch and nimbly climbs to the balcony a stone's throw above her. She slides her blade free of its cloth-wrapped scabbard and peers through the open window at the warlord, so vulnerable in the grip of sleep.
Whatever their discipline, monks are united in their ability to harness the energy that flows in their bodies. Whether channeled as a striking display of combat prowess or a subtler focus of defensive ability and speed, this energy infuses all that a monk does.
#h;The Power of Focus
Monks make careful study of a mystical energy that most monastic orders call focus. This energy is an element of the power that suffuses the galaxy-specifically, the element that flows through living bodies. Monks harness this energy within themselves to create powerful effects and exceed their bodies' physical capabilities, and some of their special attacks can hinder the flow of focus in their opponents. Using this energy, monks channel uncanny speed and strength into their unarmed strikes. As they gain experience, their martial training and their mastery of focus gives them more power over their bodies and the bodies of their foes.
#h;Training and Asceticism
Most monks live entirely apart from the surrounding population, secluded from anything that might impede their spiritual progress. Others are sworn to isolation, emerging only to serve as spies or assassins at the command of their leader, a noble patron, or some other power.
The majority of monks don't shun their neighbors, making frequent visits to nearby towns or villages and exchanging their service for food and other goods. As versatile warriors, monks often end up protecting their neighbors from monsters or brigands.
For a monk, becoming an adventurer means leaving a structured, communal lifestyle to become a wanderer. This can be a harsh transition, and monks don't undertake it lightly. Those who leave their cloisters take their work seriously, approaching their adventures as personal tests of their physical and spiritual growth.
#h;Creating An MonK
As you make your monk character, think about your connection to the monastery where you learned your skills and spent your formative years. Were you an orphan or a child left on the monastery's threshold? Did your parents promise you to the monastery in gratitude for a service performed by the monks? Did you enter this secluded life to hide from a crime you committed? Or did you choose the monastic life for yourself?
Consider why you left. Did the head of your monastery choose you for a particularly important mission beyond the cloister? Perhaps you were cast out because of some violation of the community's rules. Did you dread leaving, or were you happy to go? Is there something you hope to accomplish outside the monastery? Are you eager to return to your home?
As a result of the structured life of a monastic community and the discipline required to harness focus, monks are typically lawful in alignment.
#h;Quick Build
You can make a monk quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Dexterity your highest ability score, followed by Wisdom. Second, choose the hermit background.
#h;The Monk
#ts;
#th;Level;Proficiency Bonus;Features;Martial Arts Damage Die;Focus Points;Unarmored Movement;
#tr;1;+2;Unarmored Defense, Martial Arts;4;0;+10 ft.;
#tr;2;+2;Focus, Unarmored Movement;4;2;+10 ft.;
#tr;3;+2;Monastic Order, Deflect Missles;4;3;+10 ft.;
#tr;4;+2;Ability Score Improvement, Slow Fall;4;4;+10 ft.;
#tr;5;+3;Extra Attack, Stunning Strike;6;5;+10 ft.;
#tr;6;+3;Focused Strikes, Monastic Order;6;6;+15 ft.;
#tr;7;+3;Evasion, Stillness of Mind;6;7;+15 ft.;
#tr;8;+3;Ability Score Improvement;6;8;+15 ft.;
#tr;9;+4;Unarmored Movement Improvement;6;9;+15 ft.;
#tr;10;+4;Purity of Body;6;10;+20 ft.;
#tr;11;+4;Monastic Order;8;11;+20 ft.;
#tr;12;+4;Ability Score Improvement;8;12;+20 ft.;
#tr;13;+5;Tongue of the Sun and Moon;8;13;+20 ft.;
#tr;14;+5;Diamond Soul;8;14;+25 ft.;
#tr;15;+5;Timeless Body;8;15;+25 ft.;
#tr;16;+5;Ability Score Improvement;8;16;+25 ft.;
#tr;17;+6;Monastic Order;10;17;+25 ft.;
#tr;18;+6;Empty Body;10;18;+30 ft.;
#tr;19;+6;Ability Score Improvement;10;19;+30 ft.;
#tr;20;+6;Perfect Self;10;20;+30 ft.;
#te;
#h;Class Features
As an monk, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d8 per monk level.
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier.
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per monk level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armor: None
Weapons: Simple Vibroweapons, Simple Blasters, Chakrams, Techblades
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Strength, Dexterity
Skills: Choose two from Acrobatics, Athletics, Insight, Lore, Perception, and Stealth
Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
#ls;
#li;(a) a chakram, (b) a techblade, (c) a simple vibroweapon, or (d) a simple blaster and a power cell
#li;(a) a dungeoneer's pack or (b) an explorer's pack
#li;10 vibrodarts
#le;
VARIANT: STARTING WEALTH
In lieu of the equipment granted by your class and background, you can elect to purchase your starting gear. If you do so, you receive no equipment from your class and background, and instead roll for your starting wealth using 1000 cr + (1d4 x 100) cr.
#fe;Unarmored Defense;1
Beginning at 1st level, while you are wearing no armor and not wielding a shield, your AC equals 10 + your Dexterity modifier + your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice).
#fe;Martial Arts;1
At 1st level, your practice of martial arts gives you mastery of combat styles that use unarmed strikes and monk weapons, which are techblades and any simple vibroweapons that don't have the two-handed or heavy property.
You gain the following benefits while you are unarmed or wielding only monk weapons and you aren't wearing armor or wielding a shield:
#ls;
#li;You can use Dexterity instead of Strength for the attack and damage rolls of your unarmed strikes and monk weapons.
#li;You can roll a d4 in place of the normal damage of your unarmed strike or monk weapon. This die changes as you gain monk levels, as shown in the Martial Arts column of the Monk table.
#li;When you use the Attack action with an unarmed strike or a monk weapon on your turn, you can make one unarmed strike as a bonus action. For example, if you take the Attack action and attack with a quarterstaff, you can also make an unarmed strike as a bonus action, assuming you haven't already taken a bonus action this turn.
#le;
#fe;Focus;2
Starting at 2nd level, your training allows you to harness the mystic energy of focus. Your access to this energy is represented by a number of focus points. Your monk level determines the number of points you have, as shown in the Focus Points column of the Monk table.
You can spend these points to fuel various focus features. You start knowing three such features: Flurry of Blows, Patient Defense, and Step of the Wind. You learn more focus features as you gain levels in this class.
When you spend a focus point, it is unavailable until you finish a short or long rest, at the end of which you draw all of your expended focus back into yourself. You must spend at least 30 minutes of the rest meditating to regain your focus points.
Some of your focus features require your target to make a saving throw to resist the feature's effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows:
#bp;Focus save DC
8 + your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier
#h;Flurry Of Blows
Immediately after you take the Attack action on your turn, you can spend 1 focus point to make two unarmed strikes as a bonus action.
#h;Patient Defense
You can spend 1 focus point to take the Dodge action as a bonus action on your turn.
#h;Step Of The Wind
You can spend 1 focus point to take the disengage or dash action as a bonus action on your turn, and your jump distance is doubled for the turn.
#fe;Unarmored Movement;2
Starting at 2nd level, your speed increases by 10 feet while you are not wearing armor or wielding a shield. This bonus increases when you reach certain monk levels, as shown in the Monk table.
At 9th level, you gain the ability to move along vertical surfaces and across liquids on your turn without falling during the move.
#fe;Monastic Order;3
When you reach 3rd level, you commit yourself to one a monastic order, which is detailed at the end of the class description. Your order grants you features at 3rd level and again at 6th, 11th, and 17th level.
#zls;
#zl;monk_ability;Echani Order
#zl;monk_ability;Nightsister Order
#zl;monk_ability;Teras Kasi Order
#zle;
#fe;Deflect Missiles;3
Starting at 3rd level, you can use your reaction to deflect a projectile when you are hit by a ranged weapon attack. When you do so, the damage you take from the attack is reduced by 1d 10 + your Dexterity modifier + your monk level.
If you reduce the damage to 0, and the damage is energy or ion, you can redirect it at another target if you have a weapon capable of doing so. You can spend 1 focus point to make a ranged attack as you deflect the projectile, as part of the same reaction. You make this attack with proficiency, regardless of your weapon proficiencies, and the projectile counts as a monk weapon for the attack.
#fe;Ability Score Improvement;
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can't increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see Chapter 6 for a list of feats).
#fe;Slow Fall;4
Beginning at 4th level, you can use your reaction when you fall to reduce any falling damage you take by an amount equal to five times your monk level.
#fe;Extra Attack;5
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
#fe;Stunning Strike;5
Starting at 5th level, you can interfere with an opponent's body. When you hit another creature with a melee weapon attack, you can spend 1 focus point to attempt a stunning strike. The target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of your next turn.
#fe;Focused Strikes;6
Starting at 6th level, your unarmed strikes count as enhanced for the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity to unenhanced attacks and damage.
#fe;Evasion;7
At 7th level, your instinctive agility lets you dodge out of the way of certain area effects. When you are subjected to an effect, such as a consular's *force storm* or an engineer's *explosion*, that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on a saving throw, and only half damage if you fail.
#fe;Stillness of Mind;7
Starting at 7th level, you can use your action to end one effect on yourself that is causing you to be charmed or frightened.
#fe;Purity of Body;10
At 10th level, your mastery of the focus flowing through you makes you immune to disease and poison.
#fe;Tongue of the Sun and Moon;13
Starting at 13th level, you learn to touch the focus of other minds so that you understand all spoken languages. Moreover, any creature that can understand a language can understand what you say.
#fe;Diamond Soul;14
Beginning at 14th level, your mastery of focus grants you proficiency in all saving throws.
Additionally, whenever you make a saving throw and fail, you can spend 1 focus point to reroll it and take the second result.
#fe;Timeless Body;15
At 15th level, your focus sustains you so that you suffer none of the frailty of old age, and you can't be aged abnormally. You can still die of old age, however. In addition, you no longer need food or water.
#fe;Empty Body;18
Beginning at 18th level, you can use your action to spend 4 focus points to become invisible for 1 minute. During that time, you also have resistance to all damage but force damage.
#fe;Perfect Self;20
At 20th level, you've gained perfect control over your body. Your Dexterity and Wisdom scores increase by 2. Your maximum for those scores is now 22. Additionally, when you roll for initiative and have no focus points remaining, you regain 2 focus points.
#abh;Monastic Orders
#ab;Echani Order
Monks of the Echani Order train relentlessly both with and without their weapons, to the point where the weapon becomes an extension of the body. Founded on a mastery of sword fighting, the tradition has expanded to include many different weapons.
#abf;Path Of The Echani;3
Beginning when you choose this order at 3rd level, your special martial arts training leads you to master the use of certain weapons. You gain the following benefits.
#h;Echani Weapons
Choose two types of weapons to be your Echani weapons: one vibroweapon and one blaster. Each of these weapons can be any simple or martial weapon that lacks the heavy and special properties. You gain proficiency with these weapons if you don't already have it. Weapons of the chosen types are monk weapons for you. Many of this tradition's features work only with your Echani weapons. When you reach 6th, 11th, and 17th level in this class, you can choose another type of weapon to be an Echani weapon for you, following the criteria above.
#h;Agile Parry
If you make an unarmed strike as part of the Attack action on your turn and are holding a Echani weapon, you can use it to defend yourself if it is a melee weapon. You gain a +2 bonus to AC until the start of your next turn, while the weapon is in your hand and you aren't incapacitated.
#h;Echani's Shot
You can use a bonus action on your turn to make your ranged attacks with an Echani weapon more deadly. When you do so, any target you hit with a ranged attack using an Echani weapon takes an extra 1d4 damage of the weapon's type. You retain this benefit until the end of the current turn.
#abf;One With The Blade;6
At 6th level, you extend your focus into your Echani weapons, granting you the following benefits.
#h;Enhanced Echani Weapons
Your attacks with your Echani weapons count as enhanced for the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity to unenhanced attacks and damage.
#h;Deft Strike
When you hit a target with a Echani weapon, you can spend 1 focus point to cause the weapon to deal extra damage to the target equal to your Martial Arts die. You can use this feature only once on each of your turns.
#abf;Sharpen The Blade;11
Starting at 11th level, you gain the ability to augment your weapons further with your focus. As a bonus action, you can expend up to 3 focus points to grant one Echani weapon you touch a bonus to attack and damage rolls when you attack with it. The bonus equals the number of points you spent. This bonus lasts for 1 minute or until you use this feature again. This feature has no effect on an enhanced weapon that already has a bonus to attack and damage rolls.
#abf;Unerring Accuracy;17
At 17th level, your mastery of weapons grants you extraordinary accuracy. If you miss with an attack roll using a monk weapon on your turn, you can reroll it. You can use this feature only once on each of your turns.
#ab;Nightsister Order
Monks of the Nightsister Order utilize an innate Force-sensitivity to commune with death. They learn to channel this power to drain the life of their foes to prolong their own existence. Males who join this order are called Nightbrothers.
#abf;Ichor Lightning;3
Beginning when you choose this order at 3rd level, you gain a new attack option that you can use with the Attack action. This special attack is a ranged force attack with a range of 30 feet. You are proficient with it, and you add your Dexterity modifier to its attack and damage rolls. Its damage is necrotic, and its damage die is a d4. This die changes as you gain monk levels, as shown in the Martial Arts column of the Monk table.
When you take the Attack action on your turn and use this special attack as part of it, you can spend 1 focus point to make the special attack twice as a bonus action.
When you gain the Extra Attack feature, this special attack can be used for any of the attacks you make as part of the Attack action.
When you reduce a creature to 0 hit points with this attack, you gain temporary hit points equal to your Wisdom modifier + your monk level (minimum of 1 temporary hit point).
#abf;Dark Magick;6
At 6th level, when you take this action, each creature within 30 feet of you that can see you must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of you until the end of your next turn.
#abf;Mastery Of Death;11
Starting at 11th level, when you are reduced to 0 hit points, you can expend 1 focus point (no action required) to have 1 hit point instead.
#abf;Spirit Blade Assault;17
At 17th level, as an action, you conjure a blade of negative energy and strike one creature within 5 feet of you with it, expending 1 to 10 focus points. The target must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 2d10 necrotic damage per focus point spent, or half as much on a successful one.
#ab;Teras Kasi Order
Monks of the Teras Kasi Order are the ultimate masters of martial arts combat, whether armed or unarmed. They learn techniques to push and trip their opponents, manipulate focus to heal damage to their bodies, and practice advanced meditation that can protect them from harm.
#abf;Open Hand Technique;3
Beginning when you choose this order at 3rd level, you can manipulate your enemy's focus when you harness your own. Whenever you hit a creature with one of the attacks granted by your Flurry of Blows, you can impose one of the following effects on that target:
#ls;
#li;It must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be knocked prone.
#li;It must make a Strength saving throw. If it fails, you can push it up to 15 feet away from you.
#li;It can't take reactions until the end of your next turn.
#le;
#abf;Wholeness Of Body;6
At 6th level, you gain the ability to heal yourself. As an action, you can regain hit points equal to three times your monk level.
You must finish a long rest before you can use this feature again.
#abf;Tranquility;11
Starting at 11th level, you can enter a special meditation that surrounds you with an aura of peace. At the end of a long rest, you gain the effect of a *sanctuary* force power that lasts until the start of your next long rest (the power can end early as normal). The saving throw DC for the power equals 8 + your Wisdom modifier + your proficiency bonus.
#abf;Quivering Palm;17
At 17th level, you gain the ability to set up lethal vibrations in someone's body. When you hit a creature with an unarmed strike, you can spend 3 focus points to start these imperceptible vibrations, which last for a number of days equal to your monk level. The vibrations are harmless unless you use your action to end them. To do so, you and the target must be on the same planet. When you use this action, the creature must make a Constitution saving throw. If it fails, it is reduced to 0 hit points. If it succeeds, it takes 10d10 necrotic damage.
You can have only one creature under the effect of this feature at a time. You can choose to end the vibrations harmlessly without using an action.

##;Operative
#h;Operative
A Bothan spy takes a moment to adjust her infrared goggles. Nimbly sidestepping the laser grid in the room, she slips to the computer at the far end. Counting down the seconds in her head, she slices the mainframe. Twenty seconds. Ten seconds. A handful of soldiers bursts into the room, but she is already gone - with the data in hand.
With a wary eye on the door, a scruffy-looking Duros plays pazaak in a seedy cantina. When two city guards appear at the exit, he smiles and reaches under the table. Before they can move in, the smuggler flips the table and opens fire. The crowd scatters in panic, giving him just enough cover to escape.
A gorgeous young human dances before an intoxicated senator in his parlor. She winks enticingly through her golden blonde hair as she sways closer. Leaning in for a kiss, the senator is instead surprised by the barrel of a hold-out blaster pistol shoved into his mouth. He has no time to shout before the assassin pulls the trigger.
Operatives, whether good, bad, or neutral, are those who focus on a specific practice and utilize it to get the upper hand. They can come from any world or region in the galaxy, with origins from the lowliest scoundrel to the once social elite.
#h;Evading Danger
Operatives have a knack for getting out of trouble. They have an instinct for self-preservation that keeps them alive, but it's usually tempered with a need to experience the thrills that their profession has to offer, and many adventurous operatives are also saddled with a sense of honor that sometimes makes them go against their natural inclinations. No matter what their immediate concerns may be, survival is the name of the game.
#h;Outside the Law
Operatives don't often start out seeking to defy authority and break the law. Some are thrust into the profession as a means of rebellion. Others wind up on the wrong side of the law due to bad luck, poor decisions, or circumstances beyond their control. The skills they pick up along the way make them great members of any mission team.
#h;Creating An Operative
While creating your operative character, consider how you first started on your path. Maybe you were raised on the street and fell into the criminal element as a means of survival. You could be a simple trader who decided to strike against the Sith Empire when it encroached on your business. What would you say is your greatest skill set? What is your core, the truest essence about yourself that keeps you focused? Why would society treat you as a criminal, yet your allies hold you as a loyal companion?
#h;Quick Build
You can make an operative quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Dexterity your highest ability score, followed by Intelligence or Charisma. Second, choose the faction agent background.
#h;The Operative
#ts;
#th;Level;Proficiency Bonus;Features;Sneak Attack Dice;
#tr;1;+2;Expertise, Sneak Attack;1d6;
#tr;2;+2;Bad Feeling, Cunning Action;1d6;
#tr;3;+2;Operative Practice;2d6;
#tr;4;+2;Ability Score Improvement;2d6;
#tr;5;+3;Uncanny Dodge;3d6;
#tr;6;+3;Expertise;3d6;
#tr;7;+3;Evasion;4d6;
#tr;8;+3;Ability Score Improvement;4d6;
#tr;9;+4;Practice feature;5d6;
#tr;10;+4;Ability Score Improvement;5d6;
#tr;11;+4;Reliable Talent;6d6;
#tr;12;+4;Ability Score Improvement;6d6;
#tr;13;+5;Practice feature;7d6;
#tr;14;+5;Blindsense;7d6;
#tr;15;+5;Slippery Mind;8d6;
#tr;16;+5;Ability Score Improvement;8d6;
#tr;17;+6;Practice feature;9d6;
#tr;18;+6;Elusive;9d6;
#tr;19;+6;Ability Score Improvement;10d6;
#tr;20;+6;Stroke of Luck;10d6;
#te;
#h;Class Features
As an operative, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d8 per operative level.
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier.
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per operative level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armor: Light Armor
Weapons: Simple Vibroweapons, Simple Blasters, Blaster Pistol, Vibrorapier, Techblade, Hidden Blade
Tools: Your choice of demolitions kit, disguise kit, forgery kit, poisoner's kit, security kit, or slicer's kit

Saving Throws: Dexterity, Intelligence
Skills: Choose four from Acrobatics, Athletics, Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation, Perception, Performance, Persuasion, Piloting, Sleight of Hand, Stealth, and Technology
Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
#ls;
#li;(a) a vibrorapier, (b) a hidden blade, (c) a simple blaster and a power cell, or (d) a simple vibroweapon
#li;(a) a simple blaster and two power cells or (b) a simple vibroweapon and a light shield
#li;(a) a burglar's pack, (b) a dungeoneer's pack, or (c) an explorer's pack
#li;A tool with which you are proficient
#li;Combat suit and a vibrodagger
#le;
VARIANT: STARTING WEALTH
In lieu of the equipment granted by your class and background, you can elect to purchase your starting gear. If you do so, you receive no equipment from your class and background, and instead roll for your starting wealth using 1000 cr + (4d4 x 100) cr.
#fe;Expertise;1
At 1st level, choose two of your skill proficiencies, or one of skill proficiencies and one of your tool proficiencies, or two of your tool proficiencies. You gain expertise in those skills or tools.
At 6th level, you can choose two more of your proficiencies (in skills or tools) to gain this benefit.
#fe;Sneak Attack;1
Beginning at 1st level, you know how to strike subtly and exploit a foe's distraction. Once per turn, you can deal an extra 1d6 damage to one creature you hit with an attack if you have advantage on the attack roll. The attack must use a finesse or a ranged weapon.
You don't need advantage on the attack roll if another enemy of the target is within 5 feet of it, that enemy isn't incapacitated, and you don't have disadvantage on the attack roll.
The amount of the extra damage increases as you gain levels in this class, as shown in the Sneak Attack column of the operative class table.
#fe;Bad Feeling;2
Starting at 2nd level, you have a wary eye, bordering on paranoia. When you roll for initiative, you can move up to your speed. This movement happens before the initiative order is determined.
Once you've used this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest.
#fe;Cunning Action;2
Also at 2nd level, your quick thinking and agility allow you to move and act quickly. You can take a bonus action on each of your turns in combat. This action can be used only to take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action.
#fe;Operative Practice;3
At 3rd level, you choose a practice that you emulate in the exercise of your operative abilities, which is detailed at the end of the class description. Your practice choice grants you features at 3rd level and then again at 9th, 13th, and 17th level.
#zls;
#zl;operative_ability;Gunslinger Practice
#zl;operative_ability;Lethality Practice
#zl;operative_ability;Saboteur Practice
#zle;
#fe;Ability Score Improvement;
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 10th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can't increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see Chapter 6 for a list of feats).
#fe;Uncanny Dodge;5
Starting at 5th level, when an attacker that you can see hits you with an attack, you can use your reaction to halve the attack's damage against you.
#fe;Evasion;7
Beginning at 7th level, when you are subjected to an effect, such as a consular's force storm or an engineer's explosion, that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on a saving throw, and only half damage if you fail.
#fe;Reliable Talent;11
By 11th level, you have refined your chosen skills until they approach perfection. Whenever you make an ability check that lets you add your proficiency bonus, you can treat a d20 roll of 9 or lower as a 10.
#fe;Blindsense;14
Starting at 14th level, if you are able to hear, you are aware of the location of any hidden or invisible creature within 10 feet of you.
#fe;Slippery Mind;15
By 15th level, you have acquired greater mental strength. You gain proficiency in Wisdom saving throws.
#fe;Elusive;18
Beginning at 18th level, you are so evasive that attackers rarely gain the upper hand against you. No attack roll has advantage against you while you aren't incapacitated.
#fe;Stroke of Luck;20
At 20th level, you have an uncanny knack for succeeding when you need to. Your Dexterity and Intelligence scores increase by 2. Your maximum for those scores increases by 2. Additionally, if your attack misses a target within range, you can turn the miss into a hit. Alternatively, if you fail an ability check, you can treat the d20 roll as a 20.
Once you've used this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest.
#abh;Operative Practices
#ab;Gunslinger Practice
are the masters of the trick shot. The Gunslinger and his blaster are the perfect team, utilizing knowledge of their enemies vulnerabilities to take advantage of every opportunity.
#abf;Dive for cover;3
When you choose this practice at 3rd level, you learn to quickly move into cover when under fire. Once per round, when you are the target of a ranged attack, or you are subjected to an effect that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw, and there is cover within 10 feet of you, you can move up to 10 feet (no action required). You must end this movement in cover.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Dexterity modifier (a minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you complete a long rest.
#abf;Trick Shooter;3
Also at 3rd level, you learn a number of trick shots you can use to debilitate enemies and impress allies. When you deal Sneak Attack damage to a creature, you may choose to forgo two of your Sneak Attack dice to make the attack a trick shot.
Some of your trick shots require your target to make a saving throw to resist the trick shot's effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows:
#bp;Trick Shot save DC
8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier.
#h;Blinding Shot
You attempt to blind the target. The target must make a Constitution saving throw or be blinded until the end of your next turn.
#h;Brutal Shot
You attempt to knock the target prone. The target must make a Strength saving throw or be knocked prone.
#h;Hampering Shot
You attempt to hobble the enemy's movement. The target must make a Dexterity saving throw. If it fails, its movement speed is reduced by half and it makes Dexterity saving throws with disadvantage until the end of its next turn.
#abf;Spinning Flourish;9
Beginning at 9th level you can flourish your weapon in an intimidating or charming manner. As an action, you can cause one creature within 60 feet to make a Wisdom saving throw (DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier). On a failed save, the target is charmed or frightened by you (your choice) until the end of your next turn.
#abf;Ricochet Shot;13
Starting at 13th level you learn how to work all the angles. Once per turn, when you take the Attack action and miss with a ranged weapon attack, you can repeat the attack against a different target within 10 feet of the original target (no action required).
#abf;Quickdraw;17
At 17th level, you learn to perform miracles with just a blaster and some nerve. On your first turn in combat, if you aren't surprised, you can use your action to attack creatures that have not yet acted. Choose up to six such creatures that you can see, making a ranged weapon attack against each. On a hit, you deal normal weapon damage and can apply a single trick shot to each attack made this way.
Once you've used this feature, you must complete a short or long rest before you can use it again.
#ab;Lethality Practice
Those operatives who choose the Lethality Practice use disguises to get close to their enemies, then leverage the toxic power of poisons to debilitate them and capitalize on their weaknesses.
#abf;Bonus Proficiencies;3
When you choose this practice at 3rd level, you gain proficiency with the disguise kit and the poisoner's kit.
#abf;Assassinate;3
Also at 3rd level, you are at your deadliest when you get the drop on your enemies. You have advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn't taken a turn in the combat yet. Additionally, any hit you score against a creature that is surprised is a critical hit.
#abf;Poisoner;9
Beginning at 9th level, you are a master of poisons. You can apply a poison as a bonus action, and you have advantage on Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) checks made to conceal the application of poisons.
Additionally, you can improve the capability of one dose of poison. To use this benefit, you must have a poisoner's kit, and the poison must be within reach. If the poison is applied before the end of your next short or long rest, the target has disadvantage on the saving throw made to resist your poison. Once you've used this feature, you must complete a long rest before you can use it again.
#abf;Impostor;13
Starting at 13th level, you gain the ability to unerringly mimic another person's speech, writing, and behavior. You must spend at least 1 minute studying these three components of the person's behavior: listening to speech, examining handwriting, and observing mannerisms. If you can only study some of these aspects (such as only having writing samples, or only audio recordings), you can mimic that aspect of the person, but not other aspects you have not studied.
Your ruse is indiscernible to the casual observer. If a wary creature suspects something is amiss, you have advantage on any Charisma (Deception) check you make to avoid detection.
#abf;Death Strike;17
At 17th level, you become a master of instant death. When you attack and hit a creature that is surprised, it must make a Constitution saving throw (DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier). On a failed save, double the damage of your attack against the creature.
#ab;Saboteur Practice
Those operatives who choose the Saboteur Practice enhance their fine-honed skills of stealth and agility with tech, learning tricks to distract and beguile or using explosives and advanced technology to sustain a longer assault.
#abf;Techcasting;3
When you choose this practice at 3rd level, you have derived powers from schematics with the aid of your wristpad. See chapter 10 for the general rules of techcasting and chapter 12 for the tech powers list.
#h;Saboteur Practice Techcasting
#ts;
#th;Level;Tech Powers Known;Tech Points;Max Power Level;
#tr;3rd;4;2;1st;
#tr;4th;4;2;1st;
#tr;5th;5;3;1st;
#tr;6th;5;3;1st;
#tr;7th;6;4;2nd;
#tr;8th;6;4;2nd;
#tr;9th;7;5;2nd;
#tr;10th;7;5;2nd;
#tr;11th;8;6;2nd;
#tr;12th;8;6;2nd;
#tr;13th;9;7;3rd;
#tr;14th;9;7;3rd;
#tr;15th;10;8;3rd;
#tr;16th;10;8;3rd;
#tr;17th;11;9;3rd;
#tr;18th;11;9;3rd;
#tr;19th;12;10;4th;
#tr;20th;12;10;4th;
#te;
#h;Tech Powers Known
You learn 4 tech powers of your choice, and you learn more at higher levels, as shown in the Tech Powers Known column of the Saboteur Practice Techcasting table. You may not learn a tech power of a level higher than your Max Power Level.
#h;Tech Points
You have a number of tech points equal to half of your operative level (rounded up), as shown in the Tech Points column of the Saboteur Practice Techcasting table, + your Intelligence modifier. You use these tech points to cast tech powers. You regain all expended tech points when you finish a short or long rest.
#h;Max Power Level
Many tech powers can be overcharged, consuming more tech points to create a greater effect. You can overcharge these powers to a maximum level, which increases at higher levels, as shown in the Max Power Level column of the Saboteur Practice Techcasting table.
You may only cast tech powers at 4th-level once. You regain the ability to do so after a long rest.
#h;Techcasting Ability
Intelligence is your techcasting ability for your tech powers. You use your Intelligence whenever a power refers to your techcasting ability. In addition, you use your Intelligence modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a tech power you cast and when making an attack roll with one.
#bp;Tech save DC
8 + your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier
#bp;Tech attack modifier
your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier
#h;Techcasting Focus
You use a wristpad (found in chapter 5) as a techcasting focus for your tech powers.
#abf;Tracker Droid Improvements;3
Also at 3rd level, you can cast the tracker droid interface tech power at 1st-level without expending tech points. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (a minimum of once). You regain any expended uses when you finish a long rest.
Additionally, when you cast the tracker droid interface tech power, you can modify the tracker droid, and you can perform the following additional tasks with it:
#ls;
#li;You can make the tracker droid invisible.
#li;You can stow one object the tracker droid is carrying in a container worn or carried by another creature
#li;You can retrieve an object in a container worn or carried by another creature.
#li;You can use demolitions kits, security kits, and slicer's kits at range.
#le;
You can perform one of these tasks without being noticed by a creature if your tracker droid succeeds on a Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check contested by the creature's Wisdom (Perception) check.
#abf;Powered Ambush;9
Beginning at 9th level, if you are hidden from a creature when you cast a power on it, the creature has disadvantage on any saving throw it makes against the power this turn.
#abf;Explosive Retribution;13
Starting at 13th level, as a bonus action on your turn, or as a reaction when the target of your tracker droid interface is reduced to 0 hit points, you can detonate your tracker droid. Each creature within 10 feet of the tracker droid must make a Dexterity saving throw against your tech save DC. A creature takes 4d4 ion damage on a failed save, or half as much as on a successful one. Any electronics within the blast radius are disabled until rebooted.
Once you've detonated the target of your tracker droid interface, it is rendered useless until you repair it over the course of a long rest.
#abf;Sabotage;17
At 17th level, you gain the ability to sabotage a tech power in the process of being cast When a hostile creature casts a tech power, and you are the target of the tech power or within its area of effect, you can use your reaction to force that creature to make an Intelligence saving throw against your tech save DC. On a successful save, the power is cast as normal.
On a failed save, you negate the power's effects, and the caster takes 1d6 lightning damage per level of the power it was casting. Additionally, on a failed save, the caster's tech focus used to cast the tech power is overloaded and can't be used to cast tech powers for 1 minute.
At the end of each of the caster's turns, it can repeat the Intelligence saving throw. On a success, it can use the tech focus to cast tech powers again.
Once you've used this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest.

##;Scholar
#h;Scholar
An overwhelming horde of tusken raiders bears down on a chiss and her fellow adventurers. She gives the order and her allies unleash a single coordinated attack cutting deep into their lines. Under her command the enemy is quickly routed against all odds, all according to plan.
Deep within the once thought abandoned ruins, a nautolan tends to his companions wounds as they rest. Countless long nights of study and training have conditioned him to keep going even when all others have exhausted themselves. He will see them through this.
A twi'lek in fine vestments addresses a gathering crowd. What was the making of an angry mob begins to disperse, his mere presence putting them at ease, giving his companions time to make their escape.
Scholars are master of the mundane arts, using methodical practices to turn the tables to their advantage. From years of study and testing, scholars take in the situation around them and quickly formulate the means to achieve whatever they have minds set to. Whatever pursuit they follow, a scholar will have a plan for anything that comes their way.
#h;The Pursuit of Knowledge
A true scholar is never satisfied. They are always seeking out a new answer to a new question. This often goes hand-in-hand with seeking a life of adventure, to explore new, hidden areas, or accompany those that do. The life of a scholar often times begins in the mundane, as a teacher or sage. Sometimes they serve as doctors, diplomats, or as officers in the military.
#h;To Learn, To Know
For scholars, mundane life is often too slow. When life becomes stagnant or when an answer cannot be found, the call to adventure rings louder. Scholars will often go to ancient, forgotten, and often dangerous places to find something to quench their thirst for knowledge.
#h;Creating An Scholar
As you create a scholar, it's important to think of where you gained your knowledge. Did you serve as an apprentice under a master? Did you attend college or other formal education? Perhaps you gained it on your own, searching out and pouring over dusty tomes found in forgotten places. Where did your thirst for knowledge come from? Insatiable curiosity? Always wanting to know the right answer? Or do you have something to prove? Think about what field you wish to pursue and think of what is driving you in that direction.
#h;Quick Build
You can make a scholar quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Intelligence your highest ability score. Your next-highest score should be Dexterity. Second, choose the student background if you plan on following the Physician Pursuit, the noble background if you plan on following the Politician Pursuit, or the soldier background if you plan on following the Tactician Pursuit.
#h;The Scholar
#ts;
#th;Level;Proficiency Bonus;Features;Academic Superiority;Superiority Dice;Maneuvers Known;Discoveries;
#tr;1;+2;Academic Superiority, Critical Analysis;d6;2;2;0;
#tr;2;+2;Discovery, Sage Advice(LR);d6;2;2;2;
#tr;3;+2;Expertise, Academic Pursuit;d6;4;4;2;
#tr;4;+2;Ability Score Improvement;d6;4;4;2;
#tr;5;+3;Multitasker;d6;4;4;3;
#tr;6;+3;Pursuit feature;d6;4;4;3;
#tr;7;+3;-;d8;6;6;4;
#tr;8;+3;Ability Score Improvement;d8;6;6;4;
#tr;9;+4;Pursuit feature;d8;6;6;5;
#tr;10;+4;Expertise;d8;6;6;5;
#tr;11;+4;-;d10;6;8;5;
#tr;12;+4;Ability Score Improvement;d10;6;8;6;
#tr;13;+5;Sage Advice(SR);d10;6;8;6;
#tr;14;+5;Calm and Collected;d10;6;8;6;
#tr;15;+5;-;d12;8;10;7;
#tr;16;+5;Ability Score Improvement;d12;8;10;7;
#tr;17;+6;Pursuit feature;d12;8;10;7;
#tr;18;+6;Adaptable Intellectual;d12;8;10;8;
#tr;19;+6;Ability Score Improvement;d12;8;10;8;
#tr;20;+6;Knowledge Unbound;d12;8;10;8;
#te;
#h;Class Features
As an scholar, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d8 per scholar level.
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier.
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per scholar level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armor: Light Armor
Weapons: Simple vibroweapons, techblades, simple blasters
Tools: Any one tool.
Saving Throws: Dexteriy, Intelligence
Skills: Choose three from Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation, Lore, Medicine, Nature, Persuasion, and Survival
Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
#ls;
#li;(a) a simple vibroweapon or (b) a simple blaster and two power cells
#li;(a) scholar's pack or (b) explorer's pack
#li;a combat suit
#li;any tool of your choice
#le;
VARIANT: STARTING WEALTH
In lieu of the equipment granted by your class and background, you can elect to purchase your starting gear. If you do so, you receive no equipment from your class and background, and instead roll for your starting wealth using 1000 cr + (3d4 x 100) cr.
#fe;Academic Superiority;1
Beginning at 1st level, you know how to apply your studies in practical ways known as maneuvers. Your maneuvers are fueled by special dice called superiority dice.
#fe;Maneuvers;1
You know two maneuvers of your choice, which are detailed under "Maneuvers" below, and you earn more at higher levels, as shown in the Maneuvers Known column of the Scholar class table. Many maneuvers enhance an attack in some way. You can use only one maneuver per attack, and you may only use each maneuver once per turn.
Each time you learn new maneuvers, you can also replace one maneuver you know with a different one.
#h;Superiority Dice
You have two superiority dice, which are d6s, and you earn more at higher levels, as shown in the Superiority Dice column of the Scholar class table. This die changes as you gain Scholar levels, as shown in the Academic Superiority column of the Scholar table. A superiority die is expended when you use it.
You regain all of your expended superiority dice when you finish a short or long rest.
#h;Saving Throws
Some of your maneuvers require your target to make a saving throw to resist the maneuver's effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows:
#bp;Maneuver save DC**
8 + your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier
#h;Scholar Maneuvers
#ts;
#th;Name;Description;
#tr;ADMINISTER AID;As an action, you can expend a superiority die to tend to a creature you can touch. The creature regains a number of hit points equal to the number rolled + your Intelligence modifier.;
#tr;ASSESS THE SITUATION;You can expend one superiority die to make a Wisdom (Perception) or Intelligence (Investigation) check as a bonus action, adding the superiority die to the check.;
#tr;CRIPPLING STRIKE;When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to cripple the creature. You add the superiority die to the attack's damage roll and the creature's speed is reduced by 10 feet until the end of their next turn.;
#tr;DELIBERATE MOVEMENT;You can expend one superiority die to take the Disengage action as a bonus action and ignore the effects of standard difficultcult terrain until the end of your turn.;
#tr;EXPLOIT WEAKNESS;When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend a superiority die and deal additional damage equal to the number rolled. This damage cannot be reduced in any way.;
#tr;GOADING ATTACK;When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to goad the target into attacking you. You add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll, and the target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target has disadvantage on all attack rolls against targets other than you until the end of your next turn.;
#tr;HEADS UP;When a friendly creature who can see or hear you makes a saving throw, you can use your reaction and expend a superiority die, adding the number rolled to the result of the saving throw. You can use this maneuver before or after making the saving throw, but before any effects of the saving throw are determined.;
#tr;MEASURED ACTION;As a reaction when you make a roll for a contested skill check, you can expend a superiority die to add to the roll. You can use this maneuver before or after making the contested skill check roll, but before any effects of the contested skill check are determined.;
#tr;ONE STEP AHEAD;When you roll initiative and you are not surprised, you can expend a superiority die and add the number rolled to your initiative.;
#tr;TARGETED STRIKE;When an ally makes an attack against a creature, you can use your reaction to expend a superiority die. You add the superiority die to the attack roll and the damage roll if it hits.;
#te;
#fe;Critical Analysis;1
At 1st level, you are able to analyze a target, develop a plan on how to best overcome any potential obstacle, and execute that plan with ruthless efficiency. As a bonus action on your turn, you can analyze a target you can see within 60 feet of you. For the next minute, or until you analyze another target, you gain the following benefits:
#ls;
#li;When you analyze a hostile creature, your attack and damage rolls made with weapons with the finesse property or blaster weapons against that target may use your Intelligence modifier instead of Strength or Dexterity.
#li;When you analyze a friendly creature, the target can end your Critical Analysis on them (no action required) to add your Intelligence modifier to one attack roll, ability check, or saving throw. Once a friendly creature has benefited from this ability, they can not do so again until they complete a short or long rest.
#le;
#fe;Discoveries;2
As you adventure, your studies have helped you discover new practices you can apply to your skills.
At 2nd level, you master two discoveries of your choice. Your discovery options are detailed at the end of the class description. When you gain certain scholar levels, you gain additional discoveries of your choice, as shown in the Discoveries column of the scholar class table.
Additionally, when you gain a level in this class, you can choose one of the discoveries you know and replace it with another discovery that you could learn at that level.
The discoveries are presented in alphabetical order. If a discovery has prerequisites, you must meet them to learn it. If a discovery requires a level, you must be that level in this class to learn the discovery. You can learn the discovery at the same time you meet its prerequisites.
#ts;
#th;Name;Prerequisite;Description;
#tr;ACADEMIC MEMORY;;You can recall anything you have read in the past month that you understand. This includes but are not limited to books, maps, signs, and lists.;
#tr;ADAPTIVE;Level 15;When the target of your Critical Analysis feature is reduced to 0 hit points, you can use your reaction to change the target of your analysis to another creature within range.;
#tr;AMBASSADOR;;You learn three additional languages of your choice. You may choose this discovery multiple times.;
#tr;CLEVER APPLICATIONS;;You gain proficiency with improvised weapons. Additionally, when you make an attack with an improvised weapon, it deals 1d6 damage. You can use your Sage Advice feature to give friendly creatures improvised weapon proficiency if they don't already have it, following the same rules of that feature as if it were a skill or tool. The friendly creatures retain this proficiency for the entire duration instead.;
#tr;MENTAL PROWESS;;When you make a Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to grapple a creature or break out of a grapple, net, and other restraining equipment, you can use your Intelligence modifier instead of Strength or Dexterity.;
#tr;HARDENED MIND;Level 9;You have advantage on saving throws against illusions and on Intelligence checks to discern them from reality. You also gain resistance to psychic damage.;
#tr;LIFELONG LEARNING;;You gain proficiency in a skill and a tool, or two tools. You can select this discovery multiple times, each time choosing a new skill and a tool, or two new tools.;
#tr;LINGERING ADVICE;Level 5;When you use your Sage Advice feature, the targeted creatures retain the benefit from your instruction for the full duration.;
#tr;MASTER'S ADVICE;;When you use your Sage Advice feature, the first time each targeted creature makes the chosen skill check, they gain an additional bonus to the roll equal to your Intelligence modifier.;
#tr;PERFECT MANEUVER;Level 15;When you roll a 1 on a superiority die, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll.;
#tr;QUICK ANALYSIS;Level 9;When you roll initiative and aren't surprised, you can use your reaction to use your Critical Analysis feature.;
#tr;RELIABLE SOURCES;Level 9;When you make an Intelligence (Lore) or Intelligence (Nature) skill check that lets you add your proficiency bonus, you can treat a d20 roll of 9 or lower as a 10.;
#tr;RESOLUTE;;When you make a saving throw to resist charm and fear effects, you may add your Intelligence modifier to the roll.;
#tr;RUNNING ON FUMES;;You only need 4 hours of sleep to gain the benefit of a long rest. Additionally, you have advantage on saving throws against exhaustion.;
#tr;SURVIVAL EXPERT;;When you make a Survival skill check, you may use your Intelligence modifier instead of your Wisdom modifier. Additionally, you have advantage on saving throws against poison.;
#tr;TARGETED ANALYSIS;Level 5;Your attack rolls against the target of your critical analysis feature cannot suffer from disadvantage.;
#tr;TECH AMATEUR;;Choose one 1st-level tech power. You learn that power and can cast it at its lowest level without expending tech points. Once you cast it in this way, you must finish a long rest before you can cast it again. Your techcasting ability for this power is Intelligence. You can select this discovery multiple times. Each time you do so, you must choose a different power.;
#tr;UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE;;You can communicate simple ideas with any creature with an Intelligence of 6 or more through basic expressions and gestures.
#te;
#fe;Sage Advice;2
When you reach 2nd level, you can spend 1 minute spreading your knowledge and experience, advising those around you. When you do so, choose a skill or tool you are proficient with and a number of friendly creatures up to your Intelligence modifier within 30 feet of you who can hear you and who can understand you. Once within the next hour, the next time each creature would make an ability check with the chosen skill or tool, they may add their proficiency bonus to the roll if they are not already proficient. A creature may only benefit from this feature once. If a creature is targeted by this feature again before using it, they can choose to retain the first benefit or replace it with the new skill or tool instead.
Once you've used this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Starting at 13th level, you regain the ability to use it after you complete a short or long rest.
#fe;Expertise;3
At 3rd level, choose two of your skill proficiencies, or one of skill proficiencies and one of your tool proficiencies, or two of your tool proficiencies. Your proficiency bonus is doubled for any ability check you make that uses either of the chosen proficiencies.
At 10th level, you can choose another two proficiencies (in skills or tools) to gain this benefit.
#fe;Academic Pursuit;3
At 3rd level, you dedicate your studies towards a pursuit, which is detailed at the end of the class description. The pursuit you choose grants you features at 3rd level, and again at 6th, 9th, and 17th level.
#zls;
#zl;scholar_ability;physicianpursuit;Physician Pursuit
#zl;scholar_ability;politicianpursuit;Politician Pursuit
#zl;scholar_ability;tacticianpursuit;Tactician Pursuit
#zle;
#fe;Ability Score Improvement;
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two Ability Scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can't increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see Chapter 6 for a list of feats).
#fe;Multitasker;5
Starting at 5th level, you can take a second reaction each round. You can only take one reaction per turn.
#fe;Calm and Collected;14
Beginning at 14th level, when you make a saving throw from an effect you can see, you may gain a bonus to the saving throw equal to your Intelligence modifier.
Once you have used this feature, you must wait until a short or long rest before using it again.
#fe;Adaptable Intellectual;18
At 18th level, you are able to effectively prepare for any mission on hand. At the end of a long rest, you may choose one of the discoveries you know and replace it with another discover that you could learn at that level.
#fe;Knowledge Unbound;20
When you reach 20th level, you are the pinnacle of your pursuit. Your Intelligence score increases by 4. Your maximum for that score is now 24. Additionally, you may use any maneuver you know without expending a superiority die, rolling a d4 instead.
#abh;Academic Pursuits
#ab;Physician Pursuit
Physicians study the medical, anatomical, and biological sciences. Those scholars who choose the Physician Pursuit use their knowledge to mend their allies on the field and deal crippling blows with surgical precision.
#abf;Medical Practitioner;3
When you choose this pursuit at 3rd level, you gain proficiency with biochemist's kits and your choice of Medicine or Nature skills. Additionally, when you make a Wisdom (Medicine) check, you gain a bonus to the check equal to your Intelligence modifier.
#abf;Remote Healer;3
Also at 3rd level, you have learned to deploy medicine from a range. When you use a maneuver targeting an ally that is the target of your Critical Analysis feature, that maneuver's range becomes 30 feet.
#abf;Additional Maneuvers
Lastly at 3rd level, you gain access to new maneuvers which reflect the progress of your studies into the medical arts. Whenever you learn a new maneuver, you can choose from any of the following as well. The maneuvers are listed in alphabetical order.
#h;ADRENALINE HIT
You can use an action and expend one superiority die to inject a creature with regenerative medication that temporarily enhances their agility. When you do so, a creature you can touch regains hit points equal to the superiority die roll. Additionally, until the start of your next turn, when that creature would take damage, the amount is reduced by an amount equal to your Intelligence modifier.
#h;EMERGENCY PRESCRIPTION
As an action, you can expend one superiority die and touch a creature. That creature regains hit points equal to result of the die + your Intelligence modifier, and when that creature makes their first ability check, attack roll, or saving throw before the start of your next turn they roll the superiority die and add it to the roll.
#h;ENHANCEMENT INJECTION
As an action, you can expend one superiority die to inject a creature you can touch with enhancements, granting them temporary hit points equal to the superiority die roll + your Intelligence modifier, which last for 1 minute. Additionally, when the target makes a Strength or Constitution check or saving throw while it has these temporary hit points, it gains a bonus equal to your Intelligence modifier.
#h;NEUROBLOCK
When you make an attack roll, you can expend a superiority die and add it to the attack roll. On a hit, the creature's next attack has disadvantage and it cannot regain hit points until the start of your next turn.
#h;REASSURE
As an action, you can expend a superiority die and call out to a creature within 60 feet that can see or hear you that is charmed, frightened, or stunned. When you do so, that creature immediately makes another saving throw, adding the amount rolled to the save.
#h;REMOVE TOXINS
As an action, you can expend a superiority die to purge the toxins from a creature you can touch. The target regains hit points equal to the number rolled and, if it is poisoned or diseased, you neutralize the poison or disease. If more than one poison or disease afflicts the target, you neutralize one poison or disease that you know is present, or you neutralize one at random.
#h;SMELLING SALTS
As a bonus action, you can expend a superiority die to heal a creature you can touch by a number of hit points equal to the number rolled.
#h;TRANSFUSION
Once per turn when you hit a creature with a finesse melee weapon, you can expend a superiority to give you or an ally that is within 5 feet of the creature a transfusion. Add the superiority dice to the damage you deal. You or your ally gain hit points equivalent to the damage you deal to the creature.
You can be the creature hit with the attack as long as there is an ally with 5 feet of you, in which you can let it hit without rolling an attack and must choose an ally to heal with the transfusion.
#h;WEAK POINT STRIKE
When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend a superiority die to temporarily daze the creature. Add the number rolled to the damage of the weapon attack and the creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of its next turn.
#abf;Field Surgeon;6
Beginning at 6th level, whenever you expend superiority dice to restore hit points or grant temporary hit points to a creature, you can roll an additional die d6 and add it to the roll. This die increases when you reach certain levels in this class: 1d8 at 7th level, 1d10 at 11th level, and to 1d12 at 15th level.
Additionally, whenever you expend superiority dice to restore hit points or grant temporary hit points to a creature, if the creature is the target of your Critical Analysis, you can instead choose the maximum on both dice. Once you've used this feature, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again. Starting at 11th level, you can use it twice before a rest, but only once on the same turn.
#abf;Resuscitate;9
Starting at 9th level, through your medical studies you have learned to delay seemingly inevitable death. As a bonus action, you can stabilize a creature you can touch that has 0 hit points.
Additionally, as an action, you can tend to a creature you can touch that has died since the end of your last turn. The creature immediately regains 1 hit point and stabilizes. Once you've used this feature, you must complete a short or long rest before you can use it again.
#abf;Panacea;17
Once you've reached 17th level, you've developed the formula to concoct a cure-all miracle solution: a panacea. Over the course of 10 minutes, you can expend rare medical supplies worth 1,000 cr to create your panacea in a simple syringe. The panacea retains its potency for 24 hours. As a bonus action, a creature can use the panacea. Alternatively, as an action, they can administer it to another creature within 5 feet.
The target has its exhaustion level reduced by one and regains all of its hit points. If the target is diseased, poisoned, paralyzed, or stunned, the condition ends.
Once you create a panacea, you can't create another until you finish a long rest.
#abf;Discoveries-Physician Pursuit;3
When you select this pursuit, you gain access to new discoveries which reflect the progress of your studies into the medical arts. Whenever you learn a new discovery, you can choose from any of the following as well. The discoveries are listed in alphabetical order.
#ts;
#th;Name;Prerequisite;Description;
#tr;ADVANCED REMOTE HEALER;Level 12, Physician Pursuit;The range of your Remote Healer feature increases to 60 feet.;
#tr;EXPERIMENTAL TREATMENTS;Physician Pursuit;Your medication and treatments are known to be untested and unstable. Immediately after you use a maneuver that causes a creature to regain hit points or gain temporary hit points, you can choose to roll on the Side Effects table to the right. The condition or effect lasts until the creature completes a long rest, or you use this feature again. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier. You regain all expended uses when you finish a short or long rest.;
#tr;FROM THE BRINK;Level 7, Physician Pursuit;If the target of your Critical Analysis feature would be reduced to 0 hp, you may use your reaction and end your Critical Analysis feature to have them be reduced to 1 hp instead. Once a creature has benefited from this feature, they must complete a long rest before they can do so again.;
#tr;HEALTH ADVISOR;Physician Pursuit;Whenever a creature that is a target of your Critical Analysis feature begins their turn, you can use your reaction to give them temporary hit points equal to one-fourth your scholar level (rounded down) + your Intelligence modifier (minimum of one) which last until the start of their next turn.;
#tr;PATIENT PROTECTOR;Level 5, Physician Pursuit;When you attack creatures that are within 5 feet of an ally that is the target of your Critical Analysis feature, attack rolls and damage rolls made on them with a finesse or ranged weapon may use your Intelligence modifier instead of Strength of Dexterity.;
#tr;SURGICAL PRECISION;Level 5, Physician Pursuit;When you hit a creature that is the target of your Critical Analysis feature with a weapon attack, it takes additional damage equal to your Dexterity modifier.;
#tr;TEND THE WOUNDED;Physician Pursuit;If you or any friendly creatures you can touch regain hit points by spending one or more Hit Dice at the end of a short rest, each of those creatures regain 1d6 extra hit points. This die increases when you reach certain levels in this class: 1d8 at 7th level, 1d10 at 11th level, and to 1d12 at 15th level.;
#te;
#ab;Politician Pursuit
Politicians study social & political sciences. Those scholars who choose the Politician Pursuit know how to best present themselves to manipulate the masses into doing their bidding or allow them and their allies to carry out their business without impediment. They also understand the importance of self-preservation for a political figure.
#abf;Silver Tongue;3
When you choose this pursuit at 3rd level, you learn one language of your choice. Additionally, you gain a bonus to your choice of Deception, Intimidation, Performance, or Persuasion equal to your Intelligence modifier.
#abf;Motivating Diplomat;3
Also at 3rd level, when you are the target of your Critical Analysis feature, you and all allies within 10 feet of you gain a bonus to their AC equal to half your Intelligence modifier (rounded down).
#abf;Additional Maneuvers;3
Lastly at 3rd level, you gain access to new maneuvers which reflect the progress of your studies into the political world. Whenever you learn a new maneuver, you can choose from any of the following as well. The maneuvers are listed in alphabetical order.
#h;CALL TO ARMS
If you are surprised at the start of combat and aren't incapacitated, you can expend one superiority die to act normally. On your first turn, as a bonus action you can make a call to arms. When you do so, a number of creatures  equal to the amount rolled on the superiority die that you choose within 30 feet who can see or hear you may act normally on their first turn.
#h;CALL THE GUARDS
When a creature makes an attack roll against you, you can expend a superiority die and command a willing ally within 5 feet of that creature to use their reaction to intercede. The creature is then forced to make an attack on the ally instead. If the attack misses, the ally can immediately make a weapon attack against that creature as a part of that same reaction. Roll the superiority die, and add the result to the ally's attack roll.
#h;CHARGE
As a bonus action on your turn, you can expend one superiority die to spurn your allies to move. Until the start of your next turn, creatures you choose within 10 feet of you who can see or hear you can move an additional distance equal to 5 times the superiority die rolled on their turn and ignore standard difficult terrain.
#h;ENCOURAGING SPEECH
You can expend a superiority die to give an encouraging speech, spending the next minute rallying your allies. You grant a number of creature up to your Intelligence modifier temporary hit points equal to the amount rolled on the superiority die.
#h;INCITE
On your turn, you can use an action and expend one superiority die to bolster the resolve of one of an ally. When you do so, choose an ally who can see or hear you within 30 feet of you. The ally can add your Intelligence modifier to every damage roll they make until the start of your next turn.
#h;OVERWHELMING PRESENCE
As an action, you can make a Charisma (Persuasion) or Charisma (Intimidation) skill check and expend one superiority die to attempt to charm or frightened a humanoid creature who can see or hear you within 60 feet. Add the superiority die to the roll. The target makes a contested Wisdom (Insight) check. If your check succeeds, the target is charmed by you if you used Persuasion, or frightened of you if you used Intimidation, until the end of your next turn.
#h;SELF-PRESERVATION
As a reaction when you make a saving throw against an effect you can see, you can expend a superiority die and add the result. You can use this maneuver before or after making the saving throw, but before any effects of the saving throw are determined.
#h;STEADY THE NERVES
As an action, you can expend one superiority die to strengthen your allies' defenses. Roll a superiority die. Until the end of your next turn, you and all allies within 5 feet of you when you use this action has a bonus to any saving throws they make equal to amount rolled.
#h;TYRANNICAL STRIKE
When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die and a reaction to issue a one-word command to a creature who can see or hear you. You add the superiority die to the attack's damage roll, and the target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target must follow the command on its next turn.
The target automatically succeeds if it is immune to charm, it doesn't understand your language, or if your command is directly harmful to it.
#abf;Force Of Personality;6
Beginning at 6th level, as an action, you suggest a course of activity (limited to a sentence or two) to influence a creature you can see within range that can hear and understand you. Creatures that can't be charmed are immune to this effect. The suggestion must be worded in such a manner as to make the course of action sound reasonable. Asking the creature to stab itself, throw itself onto a spear, immolate itself, or do some other obviously harmful act ends the effect.
The target must make a Wisdom saving throw against your maneuver save DC. On a failed save, the target is charmed by you, and it pursues the course of action you described to the best of its ability. The suggested course of action can continue for up to 24 hours. If the suggested activity can be completed in a shorter time, the effect ends when the subject finishes what it was asked to do.
You can also specify conditions that will trigger a special activity during the duration. For example, you might suggest that an officer givers her gun to the first smuggler she meets. If the condition isn't met before the effect ends, the activity isn't performed.
If you or any of your companions damage the target, the effect ends.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (a minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.
#abf;Reassemble;9
Starting at 9th level, you may use to a bonus action to call your allies towards you. When you do so, choose a number of creatures that you can see within 60 feet of you equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of one). They can use their reaction to immediately move directly towards you up to their movement speed. This movement does not provoke opportunity attacks.
Once you've used this feature, you must complete a short or long rest before you can use it again.
#abf;Beguiling Presence;17
Once you've reach 17th level, humanoids within 60 feet are particularly susceptible to your presence. Humanoids within range have disadvantage on saving throws against any charm or fear effects from you.
#abf;Discoveries-Politician;3
When you select this pursuit, you gain access to new discoveries which reflect the progress of your studies into the political world. Whenever you learn a new discovery, you can choose from any of the following as well. The discoveries are listed in alphabetical order.
#ts;
#th;Name;Prerequisite;Description;
#tr;CHARMING FEINT;Politician Pursuit;Allies within range of your Motivating Diplomat feature also gain a bonus to their damage roll equal to your Charisma modifier.;
#tr;DEMANDING LEADER;Level 5, Politician Pursuit;The range of each of your maneuvers increases by 10 feet. If the range is touch, it becomes 10 feet.;
#tr;DOMINATING PRESENCE;Level 15, Politician Pursuit;As an action, you can call out to a humanoid who can understand you that is charmed by you or frightened of you to direct their next action. The target must succeed a Wisdom saving throw (DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier) or until the end of your next turn, the creature takes only the actions you choose, and doesn't do anything that you don't allow it to do. During this time you can use your reaction to force the creature to use its reaction. Once you've used this feature, you can't do so again until you finish a long rest.;
#tr;INFLUENCER;Level 5, Politician Pursuit;The range on the your Motivating Diplomat feature is increased to 10 feet.;
#tr;RELIABLE WORDS;Level 9, Politician Pursuit;When you make a Deception, Intimidation, or Persuasion skill check, you may treat any roll 9 or lower as if you had rolled a 10.;
#tr;SOCIAL OPPORTUNIST;;You can add half your proficiency bonus (rounded down) to any Charisma check you make that doesn't already include your proficiency bonus.
#tr;TYRANT'S FEROCITY;Politician Pursuit;You have advantage on any attack against a creature that is charmed by you or frightened of you.;
#te;
#ab;Tactician Pursuit
Tacticians study strategy and the ways of war. Those scholars who choose the Tactician Pursuit train themselves and their allies in combat maneuvers to deftly eliminate their foes through clever positioning, and fierce, timely attacks.
#abf;Battle Proficiencies;3
When you choose this pursuit at 3rd level, you gain proficiency in martial blasters and martial vibroweapons.
#abf;Tactical Mastery;3
Also at 3rd level, you learn to better command your allies to victory from afar. Your Critical Analysis range is increased to 90 feet
#abf;Additional Maneuvers;3
Lastly at 3rd level, you gain access to new maneuvers which reflect your mastery in the field of combat. Whenever you learn a new maneuver, you can choose from any of the following as well. The maneuvers are listed in alphabetical order.
#h;BOLSTER
On your turn, you can use a bonus action and expend one superiority die to bolster the resolve of one of your companions. When you do so, choose a friendly creature who can see or hear you. That creature gains temporary hit points equal to the superiority die roll + your Intelligence modifier
#h;COMMANDER'S STRIKE
When you take the Attack action on your turn, you can forgo one of your attacks and use a bonus action to direct one of your companions to strike. When you do so, choose a friendly creature within 60 feet who can see or hear you and expend one superiority die. That creature can immediately use its reaction to make one weapon attack, adding your superiority die to the attack's damage roll.
#h;DISARMING ATTACK
When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to disarm the target, forcing it to drop one item of your choice that it's holding. You add the superiority die to the attack's damage roll, and the target must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, it drops the object you choose. The object lands at its feet.
#h;DISTRACTING STRIKE
When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to distract the creature, giving your allies an opening. You add the superiority die to the attack's damage roll. The next attack roll against the target by an attacker other than you has advantage if the attack is made before the start of your next turn.
#h;MANEUVERING ATTACK
When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to maneuver one of your allies into a more advantageous position. You add the superiority die to the attack's damage roll, and you choose a friendly creature who can see or hear you.
That creature can use its reaction to move up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks from the target of your attack.
#h;PUSHING ATTACK
When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to drive the target back. You add the superiority die to the attack's damage roll, and if the target is Large or smaller, it must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, you push the target up to 15 feet away from you.
#h;RIPOSTE
When a creature misses you with a melee attack, you can use your reaction and expend one superiority die to make a melee weapon attack against the creature. If you hit, you add the superiority die to the attack's damage roll.
#h;SCHOLAR'S PARRY
When a creature damages you with a weapon attack, you can use your reaction and expend one superiority die to reduce the damage by the number you roll on your superiority die + your Intelligence modifier.
#h;TARGETED ATTACK
When you make a weapon attack roll, you can expend one superiority die to add it to the roll. You can use this maneuver before or after making the attack roll, but before any effects of the attack are applied.
#h;TRIP ATTACK
When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to knock the target down. You add the superiority die to the attack's damage roll, and if the target is Large or smaller, it must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, you knock the target prone.
#abf;Fire As One;6
Beginning at 6th level, you can focus your target down with the help with an ally. Once per round, whenever the creature that is the target of your Critical Analysis feature is attacked by someone other than you, you can use your reaction to make one weapon attack against them.
#abf;Battlefield Survey;9
Starting at 9th level, you become a master at leading your allies around in a battlefield you have studied. When you spend 10 minutes observing an area that is within 120 feet from you, or by using a detailed map, select a number of creatures up to your Intelligence modifier. You and those selected allies ignore unenhanced difficult terrain, and have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks in that area.
#abf;All-Out Attack;17
Once you've reached 17th level, you can use your action to initiate an all-out attack. Choose a number of allies up to your Intelligence modifier within 60 feet who can see or hear you. The chosen allies may then immediately use their reaction to make one weapon attack against a target of your choice. You may choose the target for each attack separately.
Once you use this feature, you cannot use it again until you finish a short or long rest.
#abf;Discoveries-Tactician;3
When you select this pursuit, you gain access to new discoveries which reflect your mastery in the field of combat. Whenever you learn a new discovery, you can choose from any of the following as well. The discoveries are listed in alphabetical order.
#ts;
#th;Name;Prerequisite;Description;
#tr;COMMANDER'S ARMOR;Level 5;You gain proficiency in medium armor.;
#tr;CONTINGENCY PLAN;Level 9;When the target of your Critical Analysis feature attacks you and scores a critical hit, you can expend a superiority die to treat the attack as a normal hit instead.;
#tr;FIGHTING STYLE;;You adopt a particular style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the Fighting Style options, detailed in Chapter 6. You can't take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.;
#tr;FIRING COMMAND;;As a bonus action, you can take the Help action. Additionally, when you take the Help action, it has a range of 30 feet.;
#tr;OBSERVANT LEADER;;You can add your Intelligence modifier to any Wisdom (Perception) skill checks you make.;
#tr;STUDIED COMMANDER;;When you make an Intelligence (Lore) or Intelligence (Technology) check related to battles, tactics, or weaponry, you may expend a superiority die and add it to the roll.;
#tr;TACTICAL RETREAT;;When you take the Dash action, opportunity attacks made against you are made at disadvantage.;
#tr;UNBOUND COMMANDER;Level 12;You learn to command your allies to victory from afar. Your Critical Analysis range is increased to 120 feet.;
#te;

##;Scout
#h;Scout
Rough and grizzled looking, a human stalks alone through the shadows of trees, hunting the quarry he knows is planning a raid on a nearby settlement. Clutching a techblade in each hand, he becomes a whirlwind of steel, cutting down one enemy after another.
After tumbling away from the shrapnel of a missile's explosion, a bothan finds her feet and quick-fires two shots from her carbine at the oncoming tank. Shrugging off the wave of fear that threatens to permeate her entire being, she strafes around her foe, firing shot after shot to try to penetrate the tank's thick armor.
Glancing at his wristpad, a sullustan looks through the eyes of his tracker droid. Transmitting instructions, he sends his droid to distract the houk he's been tracking while he readies his sniper rifle for the shot.
Scouts are the first on the trail and the last to lose it, tracking their quarry for miles unimpeded. They are adaptable, wielding both tech powers and their weaponry to overcome their foes.
#h;Deadly Hunters
Warriors in their own right, scouts specialize in tracking and hunting the monsters that threaten civilization-humanoid raiders, rampaging beasts and monstrosities, terrible Force-wielders, and renegade droids. They learn to track their quarry as a predator does, moving stealthily through any terrain and hiding themselves in brush and rubble. Scouts focus their combat training on techniques that are particularly useful against their specific favored foes.
Scouts acquire the ability to cast tech powers through utilization of a wristpad. Their powers, like their combat abilities, emphasize speed, stealth, and the hunt. A scout's talents and abilities are honed with deadly focus on the grim task of protecting the civilization.
#h;Independent Adventurers
Though a scout might make a living as a bounty hunter, a guide, or a tracker, a scout's true calling is to defend civilization from the ravages of monsters and humanoid hordes that press in. In some places, scouts gather in secretive orders, though many scouts are independent almost to a fault, knowing that, when a rancor or a band of pirates attacks, a scout might be the first-and possibly the last-line of defense. This fierce independence makes scouts well suited to adventuring, since they are accustomed to life far from the comforts of a dry bed and a hot bath. Faced with city-bred adventurers who grouse and whine about the hardships of the wild, scouts respond with some mixture of amusement, frustration, and compassion. But they quickly learn that other adventurers who can carry their own weight in a fight against civilization's foes are worth any extra burden. Coddled city folk might not know how to feed themselves or find fresh water in the wild, but they make up for it in other ways.
#h;Creating A Scout
As you create your scout character, consider the nature of the training that gave you your particular capabilities. Did you train with a single mentor, tracking together until you mastered the scout's ways? Did you leave your apprenticeship, or was your mentor slain-perhaps by the same kind of monster that became your favored enemy? Or perhaps you learned your skills as part of a band of mercenaries.
What's the source of your particular hatred of a certain kind of enemy? Did a monster kill someone you loved or destroy your home village? Or did you see too much of the destruction these monsters cause and commit yourself to reining in their depredations? Is your adventuring career a continuation of your work, or a significant change?
What made you join up with a band of adventurers? Do you find it challenging to teach new allies the ways of the wild, or do you welcome the relief from solitude that they offer?
#h;Quick Build
You can make a scout quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Strength or Dexterity your highest ability modifier, depending on whether you want to focus on melee combat or on ranged weapons (or finesse weapons). Your next-highest score should be Intelligence. Second, choose the bounty hunter background.
#h;The Scout
#ts;
#th;Level;Proficiency Bonus;Features;Tech Powers Known;Tech Points;Max Power Level;
#tr;1;+2;Swift Response, Rangers Quarry;0;0;0;
#tr;2;+2;Fighting Style, Techcasting;4;2;1;
#tr;3;+2;Pathfinder, Scout Technique;5;3;1;
#tr;4;+2;Ability Score Improvement;6;4;1;
#tr;5;+3;Extra Attack;7;5;2;
#tr;6;+3;Expertise;6;8;2;
#tr;7;+3;Technique feature;7;9;2;
#tr;8;+3;Ability Score Improvement;8;10;2;
#tr;9;+4;-;11;9;3;
#tr;10;+4;Commando;12;10;3;
#tr;11;+4;Technique feature;13;11;3;
#tr;12;+4;Ability Score Improvement;14;12;3;
#tr;13;+5;-;15;13;4;
#tr;14;+5;Combat Tech;16;14;4;
#tr;15;+5;Technique feature;16;15;4;
#tr;16;+5;Ability Score Improvement;16;16;4;
#tr;17;+6;-;17;17;5;
#tr;18;+6;Supreme Awareness;17;18;5;
#tr;19;+6;Ability Score Improvement;17;19;5;
#tr;20;+6;Foe Slayer;18;20;5;
#te;
#h;Class Features
As an scout, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d10 per scout level.
Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution modifier.
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per scout level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armor: Light Armor, Medium Armor
Weapons: All Blasters, all Vibroweapons
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Strength, Dexterity
Skills: Choose three from Animal Handling, Athletics, Insight, Investigation, Perception, Piloting, Stealth, Survival, and Technology
Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
#ls;
#li;(a) light battle armor or (b) combat suit, blaster carbine, and two power cells
#li;(a) a simple vibroweapon and a light or medium shield generator or (b) two simple vibroweapons
#li;(a) a hold-out and a power cell or (b) two vibrodaggers
#li;(a) a dungeoneer's pack or (b) an explorer's pack
#li;A wristpad
#le;
VARIANT: STARTING WEALTH
In lieu of the equipment granted by your class and background, you can elect to purchase your starting gear. If you do so, you receive no equipment from your class and background, and instead roll for your starting wealth using 1000 cr + (5d4 x 100) cr.
#fe;Swift Response;1
Beginning at 1st level, you learn to react with swift and decisive action in combat. You gain the following benefits:
#ls;
#li;You ignore difficult terrain
#li;You have advantage on initiative rolls.
#li;On your first turn during combat, you have advantage on attack rolls against creatures that have not yet acted.
#le;
#fe;Rangers Quarry;1
Also 1st level, you learn how to effectively read and track your prey. On your turn, you can choose a creature you can see within 90 feet and mark it as your quarry (no action required). For the next 10 minutes, you gain the following benefits:
#ls;
#li;Once per round, when you hit the target with a weapon attack, you can deal 1d4 additional damage to it of the same type as the weapon's damage. This die changes as you gain scout levels, as shown in the Ranger's Quarry Damage Die column of the scout class table.
#li;You have advantage on any Wisdom (Perception) or Wisdom (Survival) check you make to find it while it's on the same planet as you.
#le;
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier. You regain all expended uses when you finish a short or long rest.
Starting at 9th level, you can expend two uses of this feature to extend the duration to 8 hours. At 17th level, you can expend three uses to extend the duration to 24 hours.
#fe;Fighting Style;2
Beginning at 2nd level, you adopt a particular style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the Fighting Style options, detailed in Chapter 6. You can't take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.
#zls;
#zl;fighter_feature;fightingstyle1;Fighting Styles
#zle;
#fe;Techcasting;2
Also at 2nd level, you have derived powers from schematics with the aid of your wristpad. See chapter 10 for the general rules of techcasting and chapter 12 for the tech powers list.
#h;Tech Powers Known
You learn 4 tech powers of your choice, and you learn more at higher levels, as shown in the Tech Powers Known column of the Scout class table. You may not learn a tech power of a level higher than your Max Power Level.
#h;Tech Points
You have a number of tech points equal to your scout level, as shown in the Tech Points column of the scout class table, + your Intelligence modifier. You use these tech points to cast tech powers. You regain all expended tech points when you finish a short or long rest.
#h;Max Power Level
Many tech powers can be overcharged, consuming more tech points to create a greater effect. You can overcharge these powers to a maximum level, which increases at higher levels, as shown in the Max Power Level column of the Scout class table.
You may only cast tech powers at 4th and 5th-level once. You regain the ability to do so after a long rest.
#h;Techcasting Ability
Intelligence is your techcasting ability for your tech powers. You use your Intelligence whenever a power refers to your techcasting ability. In addition, you use your Intelligence modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a tech power you cast and when making an attack roll with one.
#bp;Tech save DC
8 + your proficiency bonus +your Intelligence modifier
#bp;Tech attack modifier
your proficiency bonus +your Intelligence modifier
#h;Techcasting Focus
You use a wristpad (found in chapter 5) as a techcasting focus for your tech powers.
#fe;Pathfinder;3
Beginning at 3rd level, you are skilled at navigating the untamed wilds. You gain the following benefits when traveling for an hour or more:
#ls;
#li;Difficult terrain doesn't slow your group's travel.
#li;You can't become lost by unenhanced means.
#li;Even when you are engaged in another activity while traveling (such as foraging, navigating, or tracking), you remain alert to danger.
#li;If you are traveling alone, you can move stealthily at a normal pace.
#li;When you forage, you find twice as much food as you normally would.
#li;When you make a Wisdom (Survival) check, you gain a bonus to the check equal to your Intelligence modifier.
#le;
#fe;Scout Technique;3
Also at 3rd level, you choose to focus on a specific scout technique, which is detailed at the end of the class description. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 11th, and 15th level.
#zls;
#zl;scout_ability;Deadeye Technique
#zl;scout_ability;Hunter Technique
#zl;scout_ability;Stalker Technique
#zle;
#fe;Ability Score Improvement;
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can't increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see Chapter 6 for a list of feats).
#fe;Extra Attack;5
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
#fe;Expertise;6
At 6th level, choose two of your skill proficiencies, or one of skill proficiencies and one of your tool proficiencies, or two of your tool proficiencies. You gain expertise in those skills or tools.
At 14th level, you can choose another two proficiencies (in skills or tools) to gain this benefit.
#fe;Commando;10
Starting at 10th level, you can take the Dash and Hide actions as a bonus action on each of your turns. Additionally, you can remain perfectly still for long periods of time to set up ambushes.
When you attempt to hide on your turn, you can opt to not move on that turn. If you avoid moving, creatures that attempt to detect you take a -10 penalty to their Wisdom (Perception) checks until the start of your next turn. You lose this benefit if you move or fall prone, either voluntarily or because of some external effect. You are still automatically detected if any effect or action causes you to no longer be hidden.
If you are still hidden on your next turn, you can continue to remain motionless and gain this benefit until you are detected.
Additionally, you can no longer be tracked by unenhanced means, unless you choose to leave a trail.
#fe;Combat Tech;14
At 14th level, when you use your action to cast a tech power, you can make one weapon attack as a bonus action.
#fe;Supreme Awareness;18
At 18th level, you gain preternatural senses that help you fight creatures you can't see. When you attack a creature you can't see, your inability to see it doesn't impose disadvantage on your attack rolls against it.
You are also aware of the location of any invisible creature within 30 feet of you, provided that the creature isn't hidden from you and you aren't blinded or deafened.
#fe;Foe Slayer;20
At 20th level, you become an unparalleled hunter. Your Strength or Dexterity score increases by 2, and your Intelligence score increases by 2. Your maximum for those scores increases by 2.
Additionally, once on each of your turns, you can add your Intelligence modifier to the attack roll or the damage roll of an attack you make. You can choose to use this feature before or after the roll, but before any effects of the roll are applied.

#abh;Scout Techniques
#ab;Deadeye Technique
Followers of the Deadeye Technique the art of the blaster shot and utilize their incredible focus to make shots that most would deem impossible. When everything depends on one shot, you want a Deadeye pulling the trigger.
Due to their uncanny focus, Deadeyes can make shots that other marksmen would never dare to attempt. Deadeyes know how to make the most of ranged weapons and can use them to greater effect than other Scouts.
#abf;Focused Superiority;3
When you choose this technique at 3rd level, you learn maneuvers that are fueled by special dice called superiority dice.
#h;Deadeye Technique Focused Superiority
#ts;
#th;Level;Focused Superiority;Superiority Dice;Maneuvers Known;
#tr;3rd;d6;2;2;
#tr;4th;d6;2;2;
#tr;5th;d6;2;2;
#tr;6th;d6;2;2;
#tr;7th;d8;3;3;
#tr;8th;d8;3;3;
#tr;9th;d8;3;3;
#tr;10th;d10;3;3;
#tr;11th;d10;3;4;
#tr;12th;d10;3;4;
#tr;13th;d10;3;4;
#tr;14th;d10;3;4;
#tr;15th;d12;4;5;
#tr;16th;d12;4;5;
#tr;17th;d12;4;5;
#tr;18th;d12;4;5;
#tr;19th;d12;4;5;
#tr;20th;d12;4;5;
#te;
#zls;
#zl;scout_feature;Maneuvers
#zle;
#h;Superiority Dice
You have two superiority dice, which are d6s, and you earn more at higher levels, as shown in the Superiority Dice column of the Deadeye Technique Focused Superiority table. A superiority die is expended when you use it. You regain all of your expended superiority dice when you finish a short or long rest.
#h;Saving Throws
Some of your maneuvers require your target to make a saving throw to resist the maneuver's effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows:
#bp;Maneuver save DC
8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier
#abf;Maneuvers;
You know two maneuvers of your choice, which are detailed under "Maneuvers" below, and you earn more at higher levels, as shown in the Maneuvers Known column of the Deadeye Technique Focused Superiority table. Many maneuvers enhance an attack in some way. You can use only one maneuver per attack, and you may only use each maneuver once per turn.
Each time you learn new maneuvers, you can also replace one maneuver you know with a different one
The maneuvers are presented in alphabetical order.
#h;CRIPPLING SHOT
When you hit a creature with a ranged weapon attack, you can expend a superiority die to cripple its movement. Add the number rolled to the damage of the ranged weapon attack. The creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have its movement speed halved. At the end of each of its turns, the target can make a Constitution saving throw to end the effect.
#h;DARING ESCAPE
You can expend one superiority die to take the Disengage action as a bonus action until the end of your turn. Until the end of this turn, you have advantage on all Strength (Athletics) checks.
#h;DISARMING SHOT
When you hit a creature with a ranged weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to disarm the target, forcing it to drop one item of your choice that it's holding. Add the superiority die to the attack's damage roll, and the target must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, it drops the object you choose. The object lands at its feet.
#h;DISTRACTING SHOT
When you hit a creature with a ranged weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to distract the creature, giving your allies an opening. You add the superiority die to the attack's damage roll. The next attack roll against the target by an attacker other than you has advantage if the attack is made before the start of your next turn.
#h;EXPLOIT WEAKNESS
When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend a superiority die and deal additional damage equal to the number rolled. This damage cannot be reduced in any way.
#h;PENETRATING SHOT
When you hit a creature with a ranged weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to damage another creature with the same attack. Choose up to two creatures within 15 feet of and directly behind your initial target. If the original attack roll would hit the second creature, it takes damage equal to the number you roll on your superiority die.
The damage is of the same type dealt by the original attack.
#h;PRECISION ATTACK
When you make a weapon attack roll against a creature, you can expend one superiority die to add it to the roll. You can use this maneuver before or after making the attack roll, but before any effects of the attack are applied.
#h;RETURN FIRE
When a creature misses you with a ranged attack, you can use your reaction and expend one superiority die to make a ranged weapon attack against the creature. If you hit, you add the superiority die to the attack's damage roll.
#h;SUPPRESSING FIRE
When you hit a creature with a ranged weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to maneuver one of your comrades into a more advantageous position. You add the superiority die to the attack's damage roll, and you choose a friendly creature who can see or hear you.
That creature can use its reaction to move up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks from the target of your attack.
#abf;Mark Of The Deadeye;3
Also at 3rd level, the range of your Ranger's Quarry feature doubles. Additionally, when making ranged weapon attacks against the target of your Ranger's Quarry, the normal and long range of your ranged weapons double.
#abf;Cover To Cover;7
Beginning at 7th level, attack rolls made against you on your turn are made with disadvantage.
#abf;Shoot First;11
Starting at 11th level, you have learned that the person who shoots first is often the one who walks out alive. When you make a ranged weapon attack against a creature that has not yet acted during your first turn in combat and you have advantage on the roll, you can reroll one of the dice once.
Additionally, on a hit, you deal an extra 1d6 damage of the same type as the weapon.
#abf;Overwatch;15
At 15th level, you have become a master at protecting your allies from afar. When a creature attempts to make an opportunity attack against an allied creature, or forces your ally to make a saving throw, you can use your reaction to make an attack roll against the enemy creature.
If your attack hits, either impose disadvantage on the enemy creature's opportunity attack roll or grant advantage to any allies making the saving throw.

#ab;Hunter Technique
Some scouts seek to master weapons to better protect civilization from the terrors of their enemies. Followers of the Hunter Technique learn specialized fighting techniques for use against the most dire threats, from an onslaught of soldiers to towering walkers.
#abf;Hunter's Prey;3
When you choose this technique at 3rd level, you gain one of the following features of your choice.
#h;Colossus Slayer
Your tenacity can wear down the most potent foes. When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, the creature takes an extra 1d8 damage if it's below its hit point maximum. You can deal this extra damage only once per turn, and this damage is the same type as the weapon's damage.
#h;Giant Killer
When a Large or larger creature within 5 feet of you hits or misses you with an attack, you can use your reaction to attack that creature immediately after its attack, provided that you can see the creature.
#h;Horde Breaker
Once on each of your turns when you make a weapon attack, you can make another attack with the same weapon against a different creature that is within 5 feet of the original target and within range of your weapon, no action required.
#abf;Mark Of The Hunter;3
Also at 3rd level, when you use your Ranger's Quarry feature, the first time you make a tech or weapon attack against the target of your Ranger's Quarry each round, roll your Ranger's Quarry Damage Die and add it to the roll.
#abf;Defensive Tactics;7
Beginning at 7th level, you gain one of the following features of your choice.
#h;Escape The Horde
Opportunity attacks against you are made with disadvantage.
#h;Multiattack Defense
When a creature hits you with an attack, you gain a +4 bonus to AC against all subsequent attacks made by that creature for the rest of the turn.
#h;Steel Will
You have advantage on saving throws against being frightened.
#abf;Multiattack;11
Starting at 11th level, you gain one of the following features of your choice.
#h;Volley
You can use your action to make a ranged attack against any number of creatures within 10 feet of a point you can see within your weapon's range. You must have ammunition for each target, as normal, and you make a separate attack roll for each target.
#h;Whirlwind Attack
You can use your action to make melee attacks against any number of creatures within 5 feet of you, with a separate attack roll for each target.
#abf;Superior Hunter's Defense;15
At 15th level, you gain one of the following features of your choice.
#h;Evasion
When you are subjected to an effect, such as a consular's force storm or an engineer's explosion, that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on a saving throw, and only half damage if you fail.
#h;Stand Against The Tide
When a hostile creature misses you with a melee attack, you can use your reaction to force that creature to repeat the same attac against another creature (other than itself) of your choice.
#h;Uncanny Dodge
When an attacker that you can see hits you with an attack, you can use your reaction to halve the attack's damage against you.
#ab;Stalker Technique
Some Scouts become consumed by the thrill of the hunt. Only heard and never seen they revel in the violence of battle. Followers of the Stalker Technique hone their abilities to track others utilizing a variety of techniques: camouflage, infiltration, surveillance, and target acquisition.
#abf;Accomplished Ambusher;3
When you choose this technique at 3rd level, when you take the Attack action against a creature that is surprised, you can make one additional attack against that creature as a part of that action.
#abf;Mark Of The Stalker;3
Also at 3rd level, while you are hidden from the target of your Ranger's Quarry feature, the first attack roll you make each round against that creature does not automatically reveal your presence to that creature. Make a Dexterity (Stealth) check contested by your target's Wisdom (Perception) check. On a success, you remain hidden. If you are less than 30 feet from your target, the Dexterity (Stealth) check is made with disadvantage.
#abf;Concealment;7
Beginning at 7th level, you've become adept at evading creatures that rely on darkvision. While in darkness, you are invisible to any creature that relies on darkvision to see you in that darkness.
Additionally, when you hit a creature with a ranged weapon attack while hidden, you can force that creature to make a Dexterity saving throw against your tech save DC. On a failed save, the creature's speed is reduced to 0 until the end of your next turn. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of one).
You regain all expended uses when you finish a short or long rest.
#abf;Stalker's Flurry;11
Starting at 11th level, if you have advantage on a weapon attack against a target on your turn, you can forgo that advantage to immediately make an additional weapon attack against the same target as a bonus action.
#abf;Stalker's Dodge;15
At 15th level, whenever a creature attacks you and does not have advantage, you can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the creature's attack roll against you. You can use this feature before or after the attack roll is made, but it must be used before the outcome of the roll is determined.

##;Sentinel
#h;Sentinel
Clad in black robes, the rattataki pulls his hood forward and steps into the shadowy alcove, only to reappear further down the hall. As his quarry walks past, he presses the hilt of his lightsaber to the back of their head, quickly toggling it on-and-off. He is gone before the corpse hits the ground.
The togruta dashes across the battlefield, doublesaber deflecting blaster shots to the ground. She pulls her wounded padawan to her feet, and guides her away from the warzone.
Green-bladed lightsaber a blur, the cathar ferociously presses the attack. With each strike, she guides her opponent closer to the ravine's edge. A flurry of blows followed by a quick *force push* and her foe tumbles over the edge.
Sentinels are the masters of blending force powers with weapon attacks. They weave the two together so expertly that their foes have trouble predicting them.
#h;The Middle of the Road
The sentinel uses stealth and subterfuge to accomplish the will of the Force. Where the consular focuses on mastery of the Force and the guardian focuses on the mastery of the lightsaber, the sentinel focuses on merging the two.
#h;Solitary Action
Sentinels are notoriously independent, most comfortable acting alone and without backup; where some use a team to make up for their weaknesses, the sentinel uses the Force to overcome theirs. While some take this independent streak to the extreme, they are usually accepting of authority, as long as they are allowed to carry out directions using their preferred methods.
#h;CREATING AN SENTINEL
While creating your sentinel, consider your personal philosophy in regards to the Force and its most famous practitioners - the Jedi and the Sith.  Are you a member of one of the two orders, or do you walk a different path? Are you an operative tapping into a latent Force-sensitivity? Were you trained in the force from a young age, or did you discover it as an adult? How do you treat those weaker than you? What was your family like? Do you see the Force as light and dark, or an impartial river of gray?
#h;QUICK BUILD
You can make a sentinel quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Dexterity your highest ability score, followed by Wisdom or Charisma. Second, choose the Jedi or Sith background.
#h;The Sentinel
#ts;
#th;Level;Proficiency Bonus;Features;Kinetic Combat Damage Die;Force Powers Known;Force Points;Max Power Level;
#tr;1;+2;Forcecasting, Kinetic Combat;d4;6;3;1;
#tr;2;+2;Force-Empowered Self, Sentinel Ideals;d4;7;6;1;
#tr;3;+2;Sentinel Calling;d4;9;9;2;
#tr;4;+2;Ability Score Improvement;d4;10;12;2;
#tr;5;+3;Extra Attack;d6;11;15;2;
#tr;6;+3;-;d6;13;18;3;
#tr;7;+3;Calling feature;d6;14;21;3;
#tr;8;+3;Ability Score Improvement;d6;15;24;3;
#tr;9;+4;-;d6;17;27;4;
#tr;10;+4;Battle Readiness;d6;18;30;4;
#tr;11;+4;-;d8;20;33;5;
#tr;12;+4;Ability Score Improvement;d8;21;36;5;
#tr;13;+5;Calling feature;d8;22;39;5;
#tr;14;+5;-;d8;24;42;6;
#tr;15;+5;Enlightened Evasion;d8;25;45;6;
#tr;16;+5;Ability Score Improvement;d8;26;48;6;
#tr;17;+6;-;d10;28;51;7;
#tr;18;+6;Calling feature;d10;29;54;7;
#tr;19;+6;Ability Score Improvement;d10;30;57;7;
#tr;20;+6;Center of the Force;d10;30;60;7;
#te;
#h;Class Features
As an sentinel, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d8 per sentinel level.
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier.
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per sentinel level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armor: Light Armor
Weapons: Simple Vibroweapons, Simple Lightsabers, Chakram, Doublesaber, Doublesword, Hidden Blade, Lightfoil, Light Ring, Saberwhip, Vibrorapier, Vibrowhip
Tools: Your choice of demolitions kit, security kit, or slicer's kit

Saving Throws: Dexterity, Charisma
Skills: Choose two from Acrobatics, Animal Handling, Insight, Intimidation, Perception, Persuasion, Piloting, Stealth, and Technology
Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
#ls;
#li;(a) two simple lightweapons or vibroweapons or (b) one martial lightweapon or vibroweapon with which you are proficient
#li;(a) a dungeoneer's pack or (b) an explorer's pack
#li;(a) a demolitions kit, (b) a security kit, or (c) a slicer's kit
#li;a combat suit and a light shield generator
#le;
VARIANT: STARTING WEALTH
In lieu of the equipment granted by your class and background, you can elect to purchase your starting gear. If you do so, you receive no equipment from your class and background, and instead roll for your starting wealth using 1000 cr + (3d4 x 100) cr.
#fe;Forcecasting;1
In your meditations on the force, you have learned powers, fragments of knowledge that imbue you with an abiding force ability. See chapter 10 for the general rules of forcecasting and chapter 11 for the force powers list.
#h;Force Powers Known
You learn 6 force powers of your choice, and you learn more at higher levels, as shown in the Force Powers Known column of the Sentinel class table. You may not learn a force power of a level higher than your Max Power Level, and you may learn a force power at the same time you learn its prerequisite.
#h;Force Points
You have a number of force points equal to your sentinel level x 3, and you earn more at higher levels, as shown in the Force Points column of the Sentinel class table. You use these force points to cast force powers. You regain all expended force points when you finish a long rest.
#h;Max Power Level
Many force powers can be overpowered, consuming more force points to create a greater effect. You can overpower these abilities to a maximum level, which increases at higher levels, as shown in the Max Power Level column of the Sentinel class table.
You may only cast force powers at 5th, 6th, and 7th-level once. You regain the ability to do so after a short or long rest.
#h;Forcecasting Ability
Your forcecasting ability varies based on the alignment of the powers you cast. You use your Wisdom for light side powers, Charisma for dark side powers, and Wisdom or Charisma for universal powers (your choice). You use this ability score modifier whenever a power refers to your forcecasting ability. In addition, you use this ability score modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a force power you cast and when making an attack roll with one.
#bp;Force save DC
8 + your proficiency bonus +your forcecasting ability modifier
#bp;Force attack modifier
your proficiency bonus +your forcecasting ability modifier
#fe;Kinetic Combat;1
At 1st level, you are an unrelenting flurry of strikes. When you take the Attack action on your turn, you can make one unarmed strike or melee weapon attack as a bonus action. This attack deals damage equal to your Kinetic Combat Damage Die. This die changes as you gain sentinel levels, as shown in the Kinetic Combat Damage Die column of the sentinel class table.
Additionally, when you make this bonus action attack, your movement speed increases by 10 feet until the end of your turn.
#fe;Force-Empowered Self;2
Starting at 2nd level, your training allows you to harness the mystical energy of the Force throughout your body. When you hit a target with your Kinetic Combat attack, you can spend 1 force point to use a Force-Empowered Self effect. You start with three such effects: Deflection, Double Strike, and Slow Time. You can only use one effect per turn.
#h;DEFLECTION
You can roll a Kinetic Combat Damage Die and add it to your AC against one attack before the start of your next turn.
#h;DOUBLE STRIKE
You deal additional damage to the target equal to your Kinetic Combat Damage Die.
#h;SLOW TIME
Your speed increases by an amount equal to 5 x your Kinetic Combat Damage Die until the end of your turn.
#fe;Sentinel Ideals;2
Also at 2nd level, you adopt an ideal that exemplifies your bond with the Force. You adopt one ideal of your choice, as detailed at the end of the class description. You adopt an additional ideal at 6th and 11th level. When you manifest your Sentinel Ideals, you choose which effect to create.
You can manifest your ideals twice. You gain an additional use at 11th level. You regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.
The ideals are presented in alphabetical order. You can't benefit from a Sentinel Ideal option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.
#zls;
#zl;sentinel_feature;IDEAL OF THE AGILE
#zl;sentinel_feature;IDEAL OF THE ARTISAN
#zl;sentinel_feature;IDEAL OF THE CONTENDER
#zl;sentinel_feature;IDEAL OF THE HUNTER
#zl;sentinel_feature;IDEAL OF THE STEADFAST
#zl;sentinel_feature;IDEAL OF THE TITAN
#zl;sentinel_feature;IDEAL OF THE TRANQUIL
#zl;sentinel_feature;IDEAL OF THE VIGOROUS
#zle;
#abf;IDEAL OF THE AGILE;
You gain a swimming speed and a climbing speed equal to your walking speed. When you make a long jump, you can cover a number of feet up to twice your Wisdom or Charisma score (your choice). When you make a high jump, you can leap a number of feet up into the air equal to 3 + twice your Wisdom or Charisma score (your choice).
Additionally, as a bonus action, you can manifest this ideal in a brief surge of energy. For the next minute, opportunity attacks against you are made with disadvantage.
#abf;IDEAL OF THE ARTISAN;
Choose one of your skill or tool proficiencies. When you make an ability check with the chosen skill or tool, you can add half your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, minimum of one) to any check you make that doesn't already include that modifier.
Additionally, as an action, you can manifest this ideal in a brief surge of energy. For the next 10 minutes, the bonus increases to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier, and you can choose a second skill or tool to extend this feature to.
#abf;IDEAL OF THE CONTENDER;
You can use Dexterity instead of Strength for the attack and damage rolls of your unarmed strikes, and your unarmed strikes deal damage equal to your Kinetic Combat Damage Die.
Additionally, as a bonus action, you can manifest this ideal in a brief surge of energy. For the next minute, your unarmed strikes count as enhanced for the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity to unenhanced attacks and damage, and you can use your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice) instead of Strength for checks made to grapple a target or escape a grapple.
#abf;IDEAL OF THE HUNTER;
You gain darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. If you already have darkvision, this ideal increases its range by 30 feet.
Additionally, as a bonus action, you can manifest this ideal in a brief surge of energy. For the next minute, you can see normally in enhanced darkness, and you gain blindsight to 10 feet.
#abf;IDEAL OF THE STEADFAST;
When you would make a melee weapon attack roll, you can instead force the target to make a Dexterity saving throw (DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength or Dexterity modifier + any bonuses to melee weapon attack rolls). If you would have advantage on your attack roll, the creature instead has disadvantage on their saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes normal weapon damage and is subjected to any additional effects that would occur on a hit.
Additionally, as a bonus action, you can manifest this ideal in a brief surge of energy. For the next minute, when a creature succeeds on the saving throw, they take half of the normal weapon damage, and when a creature rolls a 1 on the saving throw, they take damage as if suffering a critical hit.
#abf;IDEAL OF THE TITAN;
You gain proficiency in medium armor.
Additionally, as a bonus action, you can manifest this ideal in a brief surge of energy. For the next minute, you have advantage on ability checks and attack rolls that would forcefully move another creature, and the distance they would be moved increases by 5 feet.
#abf;IDEAL OF THE TRANQUIL;
When you finish a short or long rest, you gain a number of temporary force points equal to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, minimum of one). When you would spend a force point while you have temporary force points, the temporary force points are spent first. All temporary force points are lost at the end of your next short or long rest.
Additionally, as an action, you can manifest this ideal in a brief surge of energy. You regain a number of force points equal to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, minimum of one).
#abf;IDEAL OF THE VIGOROUS;
When you roll a Hit Die to regain hit points, you may use your Wisdom or Charisma modifier in place of your Constitution modifier when determining the number of hit points you regain.
Additionally, as an action, you can manifest this ideal in a brief surge of energy. You gain a number of temporary hit points equal to half your sentinel level (rounded down) + your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, minimum of one).
#fe;Sentinel Calling;3
When you reach 3rd level, you choose a sentinel calling, which is detailed at the end of the class description. Your calling grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 13th, and 18th level.
Different sentinels select different callings, called Paths, to follow as they hone their powers.
#zls;
#zl;sentinel_ability;Path Of Aggression
#zl;sentinel_ability;Path Of Focus
#zl;sentinel_ability;Path Of Shadows
#zle;
#fe;Ability Score Improvement;
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can't increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see Chapter 6 for a list of feats).
#fe;Extra Attack;5
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
#fe;Battle Readiness;10
Starting at 10th level, you have fully learned how to meld your physical self with the Force. When you take the Dodge or Disengage actions, or use your action to cast a force power, you can use your Kinetic Combat feature.
#fe;Enlightened Evasion;15
When you reach 15th level, when you are subjected to a damage-dealing effect that forces you to make a saving throw, you can spend 2 force points to add your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, minimum of one) to the saving throw if doesn't already include that modifier. If you do so, you instead take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw, and only half damage if you fail. You can wait until after you roll the d20 to use this feature, but you must decide before the GM says whether the roll succeeds or fails.
#fe;Center of the Force;20
At 20th level, you are perfectly centered with the Force. Your Dexterity and Wisdom or Charisma scores (your choice) increase by 2. Your maximum for those scores increases by 2.
Additionally, once per turn, when you would roll a Kinetic Combat Damage Die, you can instead choose the maximum.
#abh;Sentinel Callings
#ab;Path Of Aggression
From the murky depths of the dark side comes seething fury. Those sentinels who follow the Path of Aggression charge their weapon with lightning, culminating in a massive discharge that can ravage their opponents.
#abf;Voltaic Slash;3
Starting when you choose this calling at 3rd level, you learn the lightning charge force power, which does not count against your total powers known. Additionally, you can use Wisdom or Charisma as your forcecasting ability for it, and you can use your Kinetic Combat feature when you cast it as your action. Finally, when you deal lightning damage with the lightning charge force power, you deal additional lightning damage equal to half your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, minimum of one) if it doesn't already include that modifier.
#abf;Thunderous Momentum;3
Also at 3rd level, your stride becomes nigh unbreakable. You are immune to the shocked condition, and other effects that would reduce your speed only reduce it by 5 feet.
#abf;Entropic Rush;7
At 7th level, you've learned to move with speed and precision, discharging your lightning in a massive burst. When you move at least half your speed before casting lightning charge, you make the attack roll with advantage. Additionally, on a hit, the lightning can leap a second time, to a third creature within range or back to the first creature.
#abf;Living Current;13
By 13th level, you've learned to channel the damage done to you to enhance your strikes. The first time you deal damage on your turn, if you took damage since the start of your last turn, you can deal additional lightning damage equal to your Kinetic Combat Damage Die + half the amount of damage taken (rounded down).
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, a minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a short or long rest.
#abf;Retaliatory Strike;18
At 18th level, when a creature hits you with an attack while within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to cast the lightning charge force power, targeting them.
#ab;Path Of Focus
The ways of the Force can reveal themselves to a sentinel through intense concentration and, most importantly, focus. Those sentinels who follow the Path of Focus use debilitating bursts of lightsaber strikes and force powers to exhaust their foes, crushing any hopes they had of mounting an effective defense.
#abf;Focused Burst;3
Starting when you choose this calling at 3rd level, you learn the burst force power, which does not count against your total powers known. Additionally, you can use your Kinetic Combat feature when you cast it as your action. Finally, you add your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice, a minimum of +1) to damage rolls with it, and creatures that succeed on their saving throw take half damage, instead of none.
#abf;Blade Dance;3
Also at 3rd level, when you deal damage to a creature within 5 feet of you, you can move up to 10 feet without provoking opportunity attacks.
#abf;Blade Storm;7
At 7th level, your bursts become even more overwhelming. Once on your turn, when a creature takes damage from you twice, you can immediately make one additional attack against that creature (no action required). This attack deals damage equal to your Kinetic Combat Damage Die.
#abf;Focused Flow;13
By 13th level, whenever you use a Force-Empowered Self feature, you may instead expend no force points and roll a d4 in place of your Kinetic Combat Damage Die.
#abf;Master Strike;18
At 18th level, your bursts can overpower even the fiercest of foes. Once on your turn, when a creature takes damage from you three times, you can force it to make a Constitution saving throw against your universal force save DC. On a failed save, it becomes stunned until the end of its next turn.
#ab;Path Of Shadows
In darkness, there is protection. Those sentinels who follow the Path of Shadows utilize a calculated plan, becoming masters of stealth and ambush who forgo the head-on attack for the vulnerable flank.
#abf;Dead Silence;3
Starting when you choose this calling at 3rd level, you learn the psychic charge force power, which does not count against your total powers known. Additionally, you can use Wisdom or Charisma as your forcecasting ability for it, and you can use your Kinetic Combat feature when you cast it as your action. Finally, when you hit a creature with the psychic charge force power and the target tries to speak, their voice does not produce sound until the end of your next turn.
#abf;Cloak Of Shadows;3
Also at 3rd level, you can take the Hide action as a bonus action on your turn. Additionally, you can try to hide when you are lightly obscured from the creature from which you are hiding.
#abf;Shadow Strike;7
At 7th level, you learn to strike from the shadows. Once per turn, you can deal an extra 1d6 damage to one creature you hit with an attack if you have advantage on the roll.
The extra damage increases to 2d6 at 11th level and 3d6 at 17th level.
#abf;Shadow Step;13
By 13th level, you gain the ability to step from one shadow into another. While you are in dim light or darkness, as a bonus action you can teleport up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space you can see that is also in dim light or darkness. You then have advantage on the first melee attack you make before the end of the turn.
#abf;Shadow's Wrath;18
At 18th level, your training has taught you advanced techniques while you maneuver in the shadows. While you are hidden from your target, the first attack roll you make each round does not automatically reveal your presence. Make a Dexterity (Stealth) check against your target's Wisdom (Perception) check. On a success, you remain hidden. If you are also invisible, you remain invisible.
