##;Agent
Many organizations active in the galaxy aren't bound by strictures of geography. These factions pursue their agendas without regard for political boundaries, and their members operate anywhere the organization deems necessary. These groups employ listeners, rumormongers, smugglers, mercenaries, cache-holders (people who guard caches of wealth or items for use by the faction's operatives), haven keepers, and message drop minders, to name a few. At the core of every faction are those who don't merely fulfill a small function for that organization, but who serve as its hands, head, and heart. As a prelude to your adventuring career (and in preparation for it), you served as an agent of a particular faction. You might have operated openly or secretly, depending on the faction and its goals, as well as how those goals mesh with your own. Becoming an adventurer doesn't necessarily require you to relinquish membership in your faction (though you can choose to do so), and it might enhance your status in the faction.
Skill Proficiencies: Choose two from among Deception, Investigation, Lore, and Persuasion.
Languages: Two of your choice
Equipment: Badge or emblem of your faction, a copy of a seminal faction text (or a code-book for a covert faction), a set of common clothes, and a pouch containing 150 cr
Feature: Safe Haven
As a faction agent, you have access to a secret network of supporters and operatives who can provide assistance on your adventures. You know a set of secret signs and passwords you can use to identify such operatives, who can provide you with access to a hidden safe house, free room and board, or assistance in finding information. These agents never risk their lives for you or risk revealing their true identities.
Suggested Characteristics
Agents are shaped by their experience in their faction’s communities. Their study of the history and tenets of their faction and their relationships to it affect their mannerisms and ideals. Their flaws might be some hidden hypocrisy or heretical idea, or an ideal or bond taken to an extreme.
BACKGROUND FEAT
As a further embodiment of the experience and training of your background, you can choose from the following feats:
d8 Background Feat
1 Silver-Tongued
2 Investigator
3 Loremaster
4 Charming Persona
5 Linguist
6 Alert
7 Observant
8 Practiced
d8 Personality Trait
1 I idolize a particular hero of my faction, and constantly refer to that person’s deeds and example.
2 I can find common ground between the fiercest enemies, empathizing with them and always working towards peace.
3 I see omens in every event and action.
4 Nothing can shake my optimistic attitude.
5 I quote (or misquote) sacred texts and proverbs in almost every situation.
6 I am tolerant (or intolerant) of other factions and respect (or condemn) them.
7 I've enjoyed fine food, drink, and high society among my faction’s elite. Rough living grates on me.
8 I have little practical experience dealing with people in the world.
d6 Ideal
1 Tradition. The ancient traditions of worship and sacrifice must be preserved and upheld. (Lawful)
2 Charity. I always try to help those in need, no matter what the personal cost. (Light)
3 Change. We must help bring about the changes the gods are constantly working in the world. (Chaotic)
4 Power. I hope to one day rise to the top of my faith’s religious hierarchy. (Lawful)
5 Faith. I trust that my leader will guide my actions, I have faith that if I work hard, things will go well. (Lawful)
6 Aspiration. I seek to prove myself worthy of my leader’s favor by matching my actions against his or her teachings. (Any)
d6 Bond
1 I would die to recover an artifact of my faction that was lost long ago.
2 I will someday get revenge on the corrupt faction hierarchy who branded me a heretic.
3 I owe my life to the faction member who took me in when my parents died.
4 Everything I do is for the common people.
5 I will do anything to protect the faction where I served.
6 I seek to preserve a sacred text that my enemies consider heretical and seek to destroy.
d6 Flaw
1 I judge others harshly, and myself even more severely.
2 I put too much trust in those who wield power within my faction’s hierarchy.
3 My piety sometimes leads me to blindly trust those that profess faith in my faction.
4 I am inflexible in my thinking.
5 I am suspicious of strangers and expect the worst of them.
6 Once I pick a goal, I become obsessed with it to the detriment of everything else in my life.
##;Bounty Hunter
Before you became an adventurer, your life was already full of conflict and excitement, because you made a living tracking down people for pay. Unlike some people who collect bounties, though, you aren't a savage who follows quarry into or through the wilderness. You’re involved in a lucrative trade, in the place where you live, that routinely tests your skills and survival instincts. What's more, you aren't alone, as a bounty hunter in the wild would be: you routinely interact with both the criminal subculture and other bounty hunters, maintaining contacts in both areas to help you succeed.
You might be a cunning thief-catcher, prowling the rooftops to catch one of the myriad burglars of the city. Perhaps you are someone who has your ear to the street, aware of the doings of street gangs. You might be a "velvet mask" bounty hunter, one who blends in with high society and noble circles in order to catch the criminals that prey on the rich, whether pickpockets or con artists. As a member of an adventuring party, you might find it more difficult to pursue a personal agenda that doesn't ft with the group's objectives - but on the other hand, you can take down much more formidable targets with the help of your companions.
Skill Proficiencies: Choose two from Deception, Insight, Persuasion, and Stealth
Tool Proficiencies: Your choice of demolitions kit, security kit, or slicer's kit
Languages: One of your choice
Equipment: A set of clothes appropriate to your duties, a set of binders, and a pouch containing 200 cr
Feature: Ear to the Ground
You are in frequent contact with people in the segment of society that your chosen quarries move through. These people might be associated with the criminal underworld, the rough-and-tumble folk of the streets, or members of high society. This connection comes in the form of a contact in any city you visit, a person who provides information about the people and places of the local area.
Suggested Characteristics
Your bond might involve other bounty hunters or the organizations or individuals that employ you. Your ideal could be associated with your determination always to catch your quarry or your desire to maintain your reputation for being dependable.
BACKGROUND FEAT
As a further embodiment of the experience and training of your background, you can choose from the following feats:
d8 Background Feat
1 Silver-Tongued
2 Empathic
3 Charming Persona
4 Stealthy
5 Demolitionist
6 Bypasser
7 Slicer
8 Linguist
d8 Personality Trait
1 I always have a plan for what to do when things go wrong.
2 I am always calm, no matter what the situation. I never raise my voice or let my emotions control me.
3 The first thing I do in a new place is note the locations of everything valuable – or where such things could be hidden.
4 I would rather make a new friend than a new enemy.
5 I am incredibly slow to trust. Those who seem the fairest often have the most to hide.
6 I don’t pay attention to the risks in a situation. Never tell me the odds.
7 The best way to get me to do something is to tell me I can’t do it.
8 I blow up at the slightest insult. 
d6 Ideal
1 Honor. I don’t steal from others in the trade. (Lawful)
2 Freedom. Chains are meant to be broken, as are those who would forge them. (Chaotic)
3 Charity. I steal from the wealthy so that I can help people in need. (Light)
4 Greed. I will do whatever it takes to become wealthy. (Dark)
5 People. I’m loyal to my friends, not to any ideals, and everyone else can take a trip down the Styx for all I care. (Neutral)
6 Redemption. There’s a spark of good in everyone. (Light)
d6 Bond
1 I’m trying to pay o?? an old debt I owe to a generous benefactor.
2 My ill-gotten gains go to support my family.
3 Something important was taken from me, and I aim to steal it back.
4 I will become the greatest thief that ever lived.
5 I’m guilty of a terrible crime. I hope I can redeem myself for it.
6 Someone I loved died because of a mistake I made. That will never happen again.
d6 Flaw
1 When I see something valuable, I can’t think about anything but how to steal it.
2 When faced with a choice between money and my friends, I usually choose the money.
3 If there’s a plan, I’ll forget it. If I don’t forget it, I’ll ignore it.
4 I have a “tell” that reveals when I'm lying.
5 I turn tail and run when things look bad.
6 An innocent person is in prison for a crime that I committed. I’m okay with that.
